The reality is the AI boom is real.
>> AI has the potential to be very
important. But no technology gets
adopted in a straight line.
>> We need to see a heck of a lot more,
particularly given the amount of
spending that is going to be done over
the next couple of years. I don't think
the spigot turns off in '26 or '27.
>> You are seeing a broader melt. A most
preferred way to pay structural growth
is through tech. For the moment, the
trajectory is very much towards
corporate still being in a relatively
better position.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
AnneMarie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday threatening to melt up. The
S&P 500 at all-time highs on a 7-day
winning run following AMD inking a
blockbuster chip deal with OpenAI. The
Citadel billionaire boss, Ken Griffin,
says we're definitely on a sugar high.
That rally this morning taking a
breather. When it comes to AMD,
Jonathan, massive moment. We will look
back at this moment and say was this a
decisive moment for AI and the build-out
or is this potentially the start of what
people are starting to say it's feeling
sugary and we are on a high. Another
moment of a circular market where AMD is
going to help OpenAI AI with their
compute and strategic build-out and then
OpenAI gets a stake in AMD. So if AMD
does well and OpenAI does well, then
they both do well, but if they don't
this is where it starts to get a little
bit unnerving.
>> That stock up big time in yesterday's
session, up again this morning so far by
close to 4% in the pre-market. All eyes
on a gold rally as well, very close to
4K. This is what Ken Griffin at Citadel
had to say on that gold rally. Really
concerning. People are looking for ways
to effectively de-dollarize. If you
don't want to hold US dollars and a
little bit nervous about US treasuries,
right now we still have seven is the
seventh day of a government shutdown,
but there's always this policy
uncertainty emanating from Washington
DC, what do you do? You go and hold on
to gold. But this has been a story even
under the Biden administration. We first
saw the big sanctions when it came to
Russia and going after their
central bank assets. You look at central
banks around the world, they're saying
where else we put our money? We feel
safe in gold and now investors are doing
it as well. 3956 on gold this morning,
just short of all-time highs. Fresh
records in the last 24 hours once again.
Let's pick out a single name in the
pre-market, one you might not have heard
of. Trilogy Metals. In the pre-market
higher by 171%.
Another company this government is
taking a stake in.
>> And this is the question I have yet
again this morning. Are we seeing state
capitalism the way the Europeans did it
in the late 1960s or is this really a
national security concern? We look at
where this government is taking stakes,
you think it's a national security
concern in terms of why they want to go
after companies that have assets to rare
earths and have assets things like
copper that can be huge for not just AI
build-out, but critical infrastructure
and supply chains and the latest one
being Trilogy. Is this the strategic
sovereign wealth fund slowly coming
together before our eyes? Potentially,
it's coming together in real life. They
don't really know what it is yet, but
it's coming together in real time.
Massive rally on that name. More
coverage of that story later in the
program. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Ed Yardeni of Yardeni
Research with stocks on a tear.
Kitchings of SocGen as fiscal concerns
continue to mount and Neil Dutta of
RenMac on the case against the AI
productivity boom. We begin this hour
with stocks inching lower after closing
at another fresh record high. Ed Yardeni
Research writing, "Everyone's on the
lookout for signs of an AI bubble, yet
the market continues to climb the wall
of bubble worries." Ed joins us now for
more. Ed, welcome to the program, sir.
Two-part question. What's a bubble and
what is this?
Well, at this point I think we're
getting into bubble territory for sure.
We've got the forward PE of the S&P 500
around 23 and
the peak during the previous tech bubble
in the late 1990s
was 25, so we're getting close. But you
know, the earning story has been
phenomenally strong, particularly
this year in the first and second
quarters. Who would have thought with
all the commotion coming out of
Washington and it looks as though the
third quarter earning season, which is
about to start, is going to be very
strong as well. We're expecting 10%
year-over-year percent change.
So the the earnings are actually there
to continue to drive this bull market
higher, but I wouldn't want to see the
valuation multiple go any higher than it
is right now. And that earning story
part of the reason, part of many reasons
why a lot of people are still looking
for the potential melt up. Typically, a
melt up is a risk people want to own. Is
it a risk you want to own and are you
willing to keep your bets on this market
quite concentrated to take advantage of
it?
Well, you know, I I think it hasn't been
all valuation. The reality is again
it's it's been a earnings led melt up,
which is which is fine. I have I don't
have a problem with that and that's
really not a melt up. The fundamentals
are actually there and oh, by the way,
if this whole AI thing turns out to be
a lot of hype and the the companies that
are spending all this money
on
AI infrastructure have to kind of slow
it down, and it's not exactly the end of
the world. I mean, these companies are
using cash flow to to finance this. It's
not like 1999
where telecommunications companies did
seller financing and there was a
tremendous amount of debt because to do
that they borrowed in the junk bond
market. So there was a lot of
credit in in the
bubble back then. This time around it's
cash flow and if they have to slow it
down, their profits are suddenly going
to look even better. Well, Ed, two of
those companies, AMD and OpenAI. The AMD
CEO, Julie Su, said this yesterday. The
more OpenAI deploys, the more revenue we
get and they get to share the upside.
Does it concern you that this is so
circular?
Yeah.
Well, you know, I'm I'm I'm thinking of
putting a a few billion dollars into
OpenAI and doing business with them.
Everybody's playing the game here. So
yeah, the the circularity of it has got
the the markets really spooked. The
markets got spooked about AI
back in January, remember with Deep
Seek. And so this was kind of the
the latest fear that we haven't seen
anywhere near the kind of correction we
saw with Deep Seek. Um,
I'm not that concerned about it. I think
there is a lot of capital spending going
on in these companies.
You know, unless they're
they're misinformed, which I kind of
doubt it. These hyperscalers, they know
what's going on and they know that the
capacity of their system is getting
stretched, is getting pushed by
everybody using AI and trying to figure
out how to use it.
Jeff Bezos said this week as well that
investors are just having a hard time in
the middle of excitement to distinguish
between the good ideas and the bad
ideas. How do you distinguish between
the good and the bad?
Well, I'm I'm no better at it than
anybody else is at this point.
I'm going to assume that the the
hyperscalers who basically are
Magnificent Seven kind of companies know
what they're doing and they are
you know, a a lot of the investments are
data centers. It's not like you know,
right now there's
a lot of mystery about where the
spending is going. And
the the the data centers
themselves in the are actually
the data is available monthly from the
construction report that the government
used to put out when it was open.
But but that showed that data centers
were
running around 40 billion dollars
and that's at an annual rate. That's
times 12. That's not a terrible number.
Now of course, once you build
the actual structure, you've got to
stuff it with all these semiconductor
chips and that that that money's being
spent. I don't think this is money down
the drain. I think
you know, this this is for real. Ed,
there is an additional dimension that
makes this rather strange that we have
the US government picking winners at the
same time. Intel, Trilogy Metals, we
have OpenAI picking winners, too. We saw
evidence of that in the last 24 hours.
Does that change your approach to stock
picking, Ed?
Well, you know, my attitude towards
Washington is it's amazing how well the
economy does despite Washington. It's
amazing how well the the stock market
does despite Washington. I don't I don't
like this state capitalism as you
rightly called it.
It doesn't it's not really necessary.
The free market should be able to decide
who the winners are and who the losers
are. So
it's more more noise coming out of
Washington. The signal where where
really seeing the fundamentals is the
economy continues to be extremely
resilient. That's really the the word
for the economy. Past four years we've
had the most widely anticipated
recession of all times that didn't
happen. I didn't think it would happen
and I think that's why the valuation
multiples are high and it's why earnings
are so remarkably strong. Ed Yardeni of
Yardeni Research, Ed, good to catch up.
As always, thank you, sir, on the risk
of a melt up, a risk that ultimately
many of you I know want to own.
Economy's resilient, earning story's
been good and it's the earning profile
of these names that make this moment so
different in the minds of so many that
come on this program to what we
witnessed back in the late '90s.
>> That's what Ed keeps going back to. The
earning profile is so strong right now
for some of these companies. He's like,
why wouldn't you want to be a part of
this story? Next year I think will be
interesting. How high is the bar for
some of these companies to clear to make
sure that this what someone call maybe
frenzy, Jonathan, just continues. Metals
in the pre-market, what a move. Just
waking up to another one. We joked about
this, scanning individual miners and
working out who would be next. Trilogy
Metals is next.
>> Who are their peers? Because you
probably want to take a stake in them
ASAP. Wall Street Journal this morning
said five employees work at this company
right here. Obviously, I came in and
said that to you and you said, of course
it's the assets they want to get after.
Of course it's those assets. They want
the raw materials, the critical
minerals. But we are just what, eight
nine months to the Trump administration?
How many equity stakes have already
seen? Four plus the golden share when it
comes to Nippon Steel. This is a story
that will continue throughout the Trump
administration. They don't want to do
grants. They want actual stakes and they
know exactly where they're going. They
you're going to places where they need
to have US critical infrastructure in
somewhat better form I guess to take on
China. But for someone like Ed Yardeni,
it makes him nervous cuz it's not free
market capitalist.
>> It's Fluor and Counting. That stock is
up by close to 170%. Let's give you an
update on stories worldwide this
morning. Let's get over to your
Bloomberg Brief this time with Lizzie
Burden. Hi Lizzie.
Hey John, representatives for Israel and
Hamas have begun discussions over a deal
that would free all remaining Israeli
hostages in exchange for thousands of
Palestinian prisoners. US President
Donald Trump is pressing both Israel and
Hamas to secure an agreement as the war
hits the two-year mark since it began.
The talks are set to continue for a
second day in Egypt. Elsewhere, French
President Emmanuel Macron gave outgoing
Prime Minister Sebastian Lecornu 48
hours to negotiate with the country's
political parties to prevent the country
from falling deeper into crisis.
Lecornu's task is to define a platform
for action and stability for the country
by Wednesday evening, after which Macron
will decide his next steps. And Tesla
plans to unveil a cheaper version of the
Model Y today to counter the loss of US
incentives for electric vehicles. The
cheaper vehicle will lack certain
features and use less premium materials.
Executives said production of a more
affordable model started in June, but
they decided to put off ramping up
output until after the US phased out tax
credits. That should be my brief, John.
>> Lizzie, thank you. More from Lizzie in
about 30 minutes time. Big move in that
stock, Tesla. Performing quite nicely
over the last month or so since early
September, up around 30%. We'll have
more on that story later this morning.
Um next on the program, contradictions
in Washington.
We have a negotiation going on right now
with the Democrats that could lead to
very good things.
>> I think both House and Senate Democrats
are clear, we'll sit down
anytime, any We're talking to them. I
mean, I'm not saying that's going to
happen. That conversation up next with
Brian Gardner of Stifel, live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Some programming notes for you. Later on
this morning, Bramo sitting down at 7:30
Eastern time with the Ares co-president,
Kip Tindell. Look out for that. And
later, look out for this. Jamie Dimon,
JP Morgan Chase chairman, CEO, sitting
down with Tom Mackenzie over in London,
11:40 Eastern time. Look out for that
conversation later on this morning.
Before all of that, let's check out the
price action. Equity futures on the S&P
500 are erasing this morning's losses.
The S&P on a seven-day winning run. The
S&P 500 at all-time highs. The Nasdaq at
a record. The Russell at a record. In
the bond market, two-year, 10-year, and
30-year bond yields. 10-year bond yields
higher by a single basis point. Let's
call it 417 on 30s, 476. A sigh of
relief over in Japan, decent auction at
the long end a little bit earlier on
this morning, removing some of the fears
about government debt. That's been the
main focus as we kick off this trading
week, France, Japan, the lack of a
government in one place and new
government in another. Well, I have to
say France I find just absolutely
unbelievable. You have the front page of
some of the newspapers having the Elysée
Palace, according to Caroline Conan
says, is anyone there? What is Emmanuel
Macron going to do? This Prime Minister
has been in power for 27 days and he's
failed. Yet Emmanuel Macron refuses to
step down. He's going to what? Appoint
another Prime Minister that guess what,
is not going to be able to get a budget
through. And this is going to be a
deepening cycle till something really
just busts.
>> Uh this is one way of getting some euro
weakness. Euro weakness again this
morning, down by about a third of 1%.
Euro dollar 116.71.
On the Savannah this morning, let's
bring it back stateside, contradictions
in Washington.
We have a negotiation going on right now
with the Democrats that could lead to
very good things.
>> It's an interesting statement that the
president has made.
And I think both House and Senate
Democrats are clear, we'll sit down
anytime, any place
>> We can have a much better health care
than we have right now. And we're
talking to them. I mean, I'm not saying
that's going to happen. So here's the
latest this morning. President Donald
Trump saying he wouldn't negotiate on
health care as the government shutdown
drags on. The president later adding he
would only be willing to talk after the
government reopens. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now with the latest.
Good morning, Tyler.
Hey John, good morning. Some perhaps
mixed messaging from President Trump,
but the fact that he's indicated that
he's open to talks in at least some
regard is seen as a positive step and
would mark a shift for Republicans which
have previously been holding the line
that the government needs to reopen
before negotiations can begin. With that
said, we haven't seen any real
indications that lawmakers are moving in
the right direction. Take last night for
example when the Senate voted and
rejected for a fifth time the House
passed stopgap measure that would fund
the government until mid-November. Now,
one of the central questions that's
emerging here is whether or not
Democrats would get on board with a
commitment for what's known as an
up-and-down vote on extending those
expiring Obamacare premium tax subsidies
because ultimately that wouldn't mean
that the extension would pass, but it
would mean that it would at least get to
the floor and there could be a
conversation about it out in public. But
whether or not that's actually something
that could come to fruition really does
remain to be seen because Republicans
are split on these subsidies, many of
which go to people in states President
Trump won in 2024. These are
Republican-led states that chose not to
expand Medicaid and therefore have more
people on Obamacare insurance exchanges.
With that said, many of these
Republicans want to see structural
changes when it comes to the program
such as income caps and they argue that
this is a conversation that is going to
take time to hammer out and it's not
going to happen in a matter of days. And
John, in a matter of days we're going to
see a few more pressure points emerge.
Of course we're watching closely the
threat of permanent layoffs, but I'll
also add to your radar that this Friday,
October 10th, federal workers will miss
their first paycheck. And then also
watch out for developments around the
WIC program. This is a key federal
nutrition program that goes to women and
children. It's expected to run out of
funding this week and when that happens
I'd expect those alarm bells to start
going off.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. You talked
about pressure points, Amaree. And
typically this is how it goes. You've
been talking about it now for the last
week or so. You hit those inevitable
pressure points and this thing ends and
we move on. That's what Wall Street is
used to. That's what Washington has
conditioned us to get used to. Is it
different in any way, shape, or or form
this time around?
>> Well, we need to see what happens after
Friday, October 10th when federal
workers should get paid. I still am
looking at the Virginia and Maryland
senators. There's That could be a
pressure point for them. A lot of
constituents that work in the federal
government live there. And then October
15th, that is when our servicemen and
women are going to get paid or supposed
to get paid. That is going to be a huge
pressure point for everyone in
Washington, D.C.
>> To vote on this conversation, Brian
Gardner of Stifel joins us now for more.
Brian, welcome to the program, sir.
Typically, as we've discussed, you hit
those inevitable pressure points and
this thing ends. Do the usual rules
apply?
I don't think the usual rules apply to
anything anymore, Jonathan. I mean, you
know, I was listening to your
conversation. I'm just thinking back to
to Rocky III and Mr. T, the character,
you know, you know, his prediction for
the outcome of the fight, pain. And
that's what we're getting we're going to
get to. But do the pain points really
play in like they like we have expected
to them to do so in the past? Um I think
it's an open question. I really had
thought that we would be closer to a
deal by now and clear and that is not
proving to be true. So, um so far it
looks like lawmakers are protected from
that pain. We'll see how those those
those new touch points play out over the
next couple of days. Do you think we get
a deal between Democrats and
Republicans? Or do you think the
pressure points could build for some
Democrats to then vote for the clean
stopgap funding measure?
Yeah, I think the best way to think
about it is we could have a
comprehensive deal.
I would not rule that out. I think the
more likely outcome is an agreement to
agree later, a deal to get to a deal.
So,
not a full deal on the Obamacare
subsidies cuz I do think there's some
complicated discussions that still need
to take place. There needs to be some
hand-holding with the rank and file
because you do have Republicans like
Marjorie Taylor Greene who came out
overnight um full-throated support for
extending in some way, shape, or form
the subsidies. But you also have some
some uh conservative Republicans uh who
don't want them extended. So,
um I think the politics of this of this
issue are complicated. And so getting to
a deal is complicated. So, an agreement
to agree later is pro a deal to get to a
deal is probably the most likely
outcome. Is that going to be good enough
for Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer
who's under a tremendous amount of
pressure from his own flank?
I think Amaree, I think we need to
separate Schumer from the the rest of
the outcome. Schumer has his own
personal politics that he needs to
attend to in New York, his standing as
leader.
Um,
I think what a what a good leader does
uh when they know that they're in a
tough position, they may not uh agree to
the final uh uh negotiated settlement,
but at the end of the day he can let his
members also pursue their political
interests. So, we we probably will see a
deal um or a vote where Schumer does not
back it, but at the end of the day more
than eight Democrat Senate Democrats do
because it's in in their political
interest. And since they're it's in
their political interest, at the end of
the day it's ultimately in in Chuck
Schumer's political interest as well.
Brian, as you know, the government shut
down, but the asset management wing of
the White House is still operational.
Trilogy Metals, this move in the
pre-market up by 172%. This is the
company, as you know, that has mining
claims in remote areas of Alaska. These
are some of the critical metals, the
materials that we need to really succeed
here in the United States. And Brian,
it's another stake taken by this
government. Brian, can we just start
with the basics here? When we see news
like this, where is the money coming
from to do this?
It's deficit finance. I mean, this is
this is the same uh the same financing
that the administration has been rolling
out and aid farmers,
uh tariff rebate checks. It's still
deficit financing at the end of the day.
So, um yeah, it's a it's a potential
problem longer term for the bond market,
which doesn't seem to care right now.
Um, the bond vigilante you had Ed on a
little while ago. Uh we have yet to see
the bond vigilantes uh um uh perk up and
and uh and make a statement. But at the
end of the day, like I said, it it it is
deficit financing. Um, and I I agree
with that. It's it's state capitalism.
But I would take it a little bit
further. Um, it it it could be beyond
state capitalism uh into a more uh
robust form of socialism because it is
owning the mean controlling the means of
production. Um, so we're on it's a
slippery slope. I understand the
rationalization of why the White House
wants to do it and and and the net
rationalization that it's in the
national interest for for our national
security, but it is a very slippery
slope once you when you once you head
down this path. Brian, should we expect
more from the Republican Party when it
comes to these type of deals?
Absolutely. I think they've been very
clear in signaling this. I I I put a
note out uh after the Nvidia um
announcement, uh sorry, the Intel
announcement uh a couple months ago um
because of the same at that time uh the
president announced that there would be
more deals like this. Said that it's a
no-brainer to do these, that it's in
it's in the interest of of Americans. Uh
again, I'm I'm not going to take issue
whether it is or isn't, but um it's
worth noting that at the end of the day
it is a slippery slope once you start
down the path of owning private
corporations,
um even if it's a non-voting share, the
government is going to exert incredible
pressure and give benefits and
advantages to that firm over its
competitors. And that stops being
capitalism as we as have traditionally
known it is really more of a form of
state capitalism. Brian, appreciate your
time. Brian, gone to that a stateful.
It's a change, a new kind of statecraft
in Washington, D.C. And it's coming
together in real time. This is MP
Materials. This is Lithium Americas.
It's Trilogy Metals this morning. It was
Intel previously. That was a major stake
in terms of the money used compared to
these kind of investments. But we're
going to see more of this based on the
communication coming from the White
House.
>> And the golden share of US Steel. So, we
have seen this administration not want
to do grants or loans. They want to go
for outright stakes. It is unnerving
some people I talk to, even if they
don't say it out loud, because everyone
you talk to says this is state
capitalism. Brian went as so far as to
say this is socialism. And yet this is
going to be the rules of the road of the
Trump administration. If they think
there's a national security risk and
they think this is how they can compete
with China, they're going to do it.
>> This is a White House of entrepreneurs,
risk-takers. You are an entrepreneur
when you are a private individual making
these investments. It is something else
when you're sitting in the White House
doing the same thing. Absolutely. Um,
but Trump, not sure he understands that
fully, and he wants to use the weight
and power of the US government for this.
Also, this company is based in Canada,
and he'll be meeting with Mark Carney
today. So, I'm sure we're going to hear
more about this. Watch this space later
on today. That stock is higher by 171%.
Up next, we'll catch up with Kick Choos
of SocGen as French political turmoil
weighs on global markets.
[Music]
7-day winning run on the S&P 500,
all-time highs on the benchmark stay
side. Not just the S&P, also the Nasdaq
and the Russell. Futures this morning
just about unchanged. Another AI-focused
deal boosting sentiment in the last 24
hours driving this equity market,
driving the bond market in the last 24
hours. Developments in Japan and France
have been absolutely dominant. Yields
have been rising led by the long end of
the curve. You see a bit more of that
today. Let's call it higher by basis
point on 10s, likewise on 30s. The
story, we just turned that down the
volume just a little bit. If you look at
the latest news out of Japan, a firmer
bond auction helping things out so far
this morning. Stay side, we'll have our
own auctions tomorrow, 39 billion
dollars of 10-year notes, and then after
that the following day on Thursday, 22
billion dollars of 30-year bonds. That's
the situation in fixed income. Let's get
you an update on some single names, your
morning movers with Ye Heira. Hi, Ye
Heira. Hi, John. AMD is extending its
monster rally up another nearly 4% in
the pre-market after news yesterday that
OpenAI was going to purchase
up to 6 gigawatts of AMD chips. Um, and
on the back of that a number of analysts
raised their price target, but Jefferies
is notable because it also upgraded the
stock to a buy saying that this is a
strong validation of AMD's AI roadmap,
something that they had not seen before.
They also raised their price target to
$300, which is now the street high. And
moving on to another company that you
guys have been talking about all
morning, and that is Trilogy Metals
soaring 170%
uh on news that the US is taking a 10%
stake in the company. Part of a $35
million push to unlock critical energy
and mining projects in Alaska. It's the
latest move by the Trump administration
taking
direct equity stakes in these companies
to combat China. But not everyone is
getting a slice of the action, and that
brings me to my next stock, which is
Critical Metal Metals
down about 1% in the pre-market as the
White House says that it is not
considering a stake in this company. But
reports yesterday of a possible deal had
sent it soaring 45%. John. Ye Heira,
thank you. More from Ye Heira later in
the program on our radar this morning.
France's political chaos deepening.
President Macron giving his outgoing
Prime Minister Sébastien Lecornu a
48-hour deadline to negotiate a stable
government. Elsewhere, AMD shares still
rising after landing a blockbuster deal
to build AI infrastructure for OpenAI.
CEO Lisa Su calling it a massive
opportunity.
Um, I have full confidence in, you know,
OpenAI, Sam, Greg, Sarah. I mean, this
is a massive opportunity for us. Right
now, right here, it's about who has the
most compute and how fast can we get it
online? And we're committing to doing
this together.
That story driving that stock a whole
lot higher. And elsewhere, gold
continuing to hover near record highs.
Citadel CEO Ken Griffin calling the
rally quote really concerning.
As you see sovereigns around the world,
as you see central banks around the
world, as you see individual investors
around the world go, you know what?
I now view gold as a safe harbor asset
in a way that the dollar used to be
viewed.
That's that's what's really concerning
to me. That story has been driving gold
closer and closer to 4K. Yeah, it's up
what, around 50% this year alone. If you
are a central banker, individual
investor, you're concerned about
potentially what is going on, reordering
of the geopolitical order around the
world by this administration, you don't
really want to put your money into
dollars. You want to hedge a little bit.
You're not going all in on Treasuries.
What are you going to do? You're going
to go to gold. I thought this was
fascinating. 11th straight month when it
came to September, you see China Central
Bank just buying up more and more and
adding to their gold asset.
>> It's not just about the US. Ken
Griffin's there talking almost
exclusively about the United States.
It's also more broadly. And Lisa was
talking about this yesterday, a failure
of some of these governments to be good
stewards of capital. That's what exactly
what Lisa said just yesterday regarding
gold. And I think the story also really
started in Europe. I think we have to
point this out. This wasn't a US
catalyst. This was a European catalyst.
The moment they started discussing
confiscating Russian assets, that was
extra fuel for this move. Absolutely.
That's when you started seeing a lot of
these central banks really start to buy
gold and not want to put all their da-
money into dollars and diversify away.
That was one of the biggest things the
Biden administration did alongside what
happened in Brussels is to freeze
Russia's central bank assets. Basically,
all the dollars that they've been
building up, and they cannot touch. So,
what are you going to do? You're going
to look elsewhere. But you don't really
trust anything cuz who's to say no one
else can freeze those sovereign assets.
So, you're going to buy gold. Gold down
about a 10th of 1% so far this morning.
Speaking of Europe, let's turn to
France. The president, Emmanuel Macron,
giving his outgoing Prime Minister 48
hours to negotiate with France's
political parties and define a platform
for action and stability for the
country. Bloomberg's Caroline Konnaris
tracking the story in Paris and joins us
now for more. Good morning, Caroline.
What can we expect over the next 48
hours?
We've already seen a lot of twists over
the past 24 hours before the grand
finale on Wednesday night. This is the
deadline that President Macron has given
outgoing Prime Minister uh Sebastian Le
Cornu who resigned uh yesterday after
not really being able to compromise
within his own government that lasted in
14 hours. Now, the negotiations are
continuing. This morning, Le Cornu met
with his own camp and then next 24
hours, he's going to meet with
opposition parties, but the least we can
say that President Macron is really back
against the wall. This is actually the
front page of this Figaro newspaper this
morning and more people, including
within within his own camp, are calling
not only for snap legislative elections,
but also for early presidential
elections. Edouard Philippe, former
Prime Minister uh within Macron's first
government back in 2017, saying that
perhaps one solution would be to have
some sort of caretaker Prime Minister in
order to pass a budget before the end of
the year. And then uh Macron would
really be with honor if he called early
presidential elections. Yesterday, we
saw President Macron walking alone along
the Seine. This picture of him being
more and more isolated. 70% of the
French, according to the latest poll,
actually want uh his departure and want
early presidential elections. Is what
we're going to see over the next uh 24
hours? Nothing is out of the table. See
this over front page with the Elysee
Palace, Macron's uh residence, saying uh
is there anyone there?
The pressure keeps building. Caroline,
thank you. Caroline Konan tracking the
story out of Paris, France. We're
tracking the story across the market as
well. French bond yields still bleeding
higher. The euro a bit weaker as well.
Euro dollar 116.73 so far this morning.
To build on this story, Kit Jukes of
Societe Generale joins us now for more.
Kit, is this France's problem and
welcome to the program, or is it
Europe's problem?
Uh
it could become Europe's problem. I
mean, at the moment, uh Mario Draghi's
whatever it takes commitment all those
years ago is doing an an awful lot of
work in terms of preventing this, you
know, weaken the currency much more or
or widen yield differentials much more.
And so, that that side of it's all kind
of holding together, but um you know,
that you need you need to create
stability in each country rather than
just rely on this this overall
commitment. So, um I think the market is
is is doing a good job of of not of not
getting too worried about it. There is
need for a political progress actually
right the way across Europe. We need
governments that can govern. We need
growth that can grow uh and and so on.
Do we need additional pain for that to
happen, Kit?
If we carry on with this and this muddle
through, I don't see the incentive for
the French government to get its act
together. I've been saying this for a
while now and I wonder if you agree.
There needs to be more pain doing
nothing than doing something. And right
now, there isn't because the market
hasn't been unleashed because as you
mentioned, the ECB and OMT of the Draghi
years, TPI of the Lagarde years, Kit. I
just wonder if we need that market pain
to provide the solution.
Um certainly hard at the moment to see.
You would hope that politics would
deliver solutions because, you know,
this is this is the next generation's
future that we're messing around with
right the way across Europe here. So, um
but I I I wouldn't disagree. This has
been going on for a long time. You know,
you can see I sit there looking at uh at
markets and, you know, the fact that the
euro's not tumbling against even though
you're against the pound or even the
Swiss franc um
more particularly, you know, does does
give you an indication that the pressure
is not going to be created um by the
market yet. Uh and and if that doesn't
mean that there's a sense of urgency, uh
then then I don't know what happens. I I
hope the French press, you know, make
with with the kind of headlines they're
now throwing out, gets the message
across to uh uh to the government that,
you you know, you need to get get on
with governing because otherwise, we're
we're just going to stay and wallow
around here and things are going to get
worse. Kit, you're talking about these
European governments that can govern.
Yet, Christine Lagarde this week saying
there's a unique opportunity to create
conditions to strengthen the euro's role
on the global stage. How can the euro be
strengthened on the global stage if the
European governments basically don't
even have governments?
I
I mean, you you can do some things to
strengthen it. There's lots of good
things you could do with the euro to
make it work more smoothly and to act as
one as one unit and to turn Europe into
into one solid economic area uh with
fewer boundaries than exist now. But I
don't disagree that if you want a strong
euro, you know, you need to be able to
build the foundations of strong growth
of stability of of, you know,
organization on on on all sorts of
levels. And and if we can't get past the
fact that we've spent decades now under
growing, being shown up by the United
States in particular in terms of what
you can do in terms of generating, you
know, a more prosperous society, then
then in the end, you know, I I I will
continue to do what I do, which is watch
the the days when I see euro dollar
trading at 160, 150, 140, 130, I'm never
going to see them again.
US protectionism, tariffs. Could this
help a global euro more than or actually
could it hurt them?
Uh it could be a catalyst for helping a
global euro,
um but it's not it's not an ideal
catalyst. I would rather we had positive
things making the euro um more used,
more useful, the European economy more
dynamic, uh more in in likely to attract
inward investment
to um propel growth rates faster in in
here in Europe. But you know, those
would be good things. Turning around and
saying that people, you know, aren't
sure about holding a lot of dollars
because of of of of the uncertainties
about the US administration, uh that
that, you know, that's not the ideal
basis for a for a strong anything else.
And not particularly interested in
holding euros, either, Kit. And that's
the point, isn't it? They're holding
gold, increasingly looking for a move
elsewhere. Out of all the crises, Kit,
and you've been doing this a long, long
time, is there a currency that you have
confidence in?
Um confidence. Uh I I have confidence in
the Australian dollar. They They Apart
from anything else, uh I saw on the
terminal this morning that that the
value of their
of their gold exports is going to
accelerate past their liquid natural gas
exports. Uh that there's a country
that's got something going for it in
this in this world. Um I have confidence
in the Swiss franc. They won't let it go
up and they'll accumulate assets abroad
to prevent it, but I have confidence
that they can run it. Um but no, I I
mean, I have confidence in the dollar,
in fact. Uh what I don't have confidence
is buying the dollar when it's this
expensive. And that's a different That's
a different question.
>> Okay, before you go, I wanted to finish
on the latest out of Japan. Of course,
we've covered a lack of government over
in France, an inability to govern,
seemingly. We've got new leadership in
Japan. When we had that moment with Abe,
it was a huge directional trade that
started to build in the Japanese yen
very, very quickly. Do you see it the
same way this time? Back in 2013, it was
one thing. What is it in 2025,
2026? Is it more constrained this time
around?
I I I I don't think it makes sense. I
mean, when dollar yen was at 80 and
Japan was stuck in deflation with a
massively overvalued currency, it
getting the currency to weaken was
something that could help the economy
that potentially could have done a lot
more. Weakening your currency when all
you're going to do is push up import
prices, make tourism more attractive to
come in from abroad when already you
you've got as much of it as you can cope
with, um looks to me like a bad policy.
Uh the policies they need to come up
with in in Japan are policies on
you know, making the economy more
competitive domestically and getting it
moving and and just putting more, you
know,
competitive juice into the system. I Try
to try to go with with, you know,
devaluation as a policy from here, I
think is is a really bad idea. Of
course, back then, we were looking for
dollar yen to break 100 again. And this
morning, we're already at 150. Kit, it's
good to see you, sir. Exactly. Kit Jukes
of Societe Generale with the latest. You
dollar yen at 150.74. That currency pair
again up by about a quarter of 1%.
That's a weaker Japanese yen. Let's get
you an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg Brief.
Here's Lizzie Burden. Hey, Lizzie.
Hey, John. The US government shutdown
has entered its seventh day after the
Senate's fifth vote on a stopgap
spending bill failed. President Donald
Trump is now expressing a willingness to
negotiate with Democrats. The president
taking to Truth Social to share he's
happy to work with the Democrats on
their failed healthcare policies or
anything else, but first, they must
allow our government to reopen.
Elsewhere, uh shares of mobile
advertising company AppLovin are lower
as the SEC begins a probe into the
company over targeted ads. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg that the
company violated agreements to collect
data for the ads, claims that were
escalated by a whistleblower, and
reports of short-selling the stock.
AppLovin denies the claims it tracks
users across websites and apps to target
them with ads. And the International
Energy Agency slashed its forecast of US
renewable energy growth by 2030 in half.
The reduction compared to last year's
analysis is due to several policy
changes imposed under President Donald
Trump, the IEA said. Global renewable
power is expected to increase by 4,600
gigawatts by the end of the decade,
according to this report. And that's
your Bloomberg Brief, John. Lizzie,
thank you. Appreciate it. More from
Lizzie in about 30 minutes from now. Up
next on the program, the AI boom.
The reality is the the AI boom is is
real. Lots of opportunity for
productivity gains and ultimately maybe
a surprise to the upside in growth over
the next several years. That
conversation up next with Neil Dutta
over on Mac. Live from New York City,
you're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Government shutdown continues. This is
day seven. Day seven. This is day seven
that continues, which means we're light
on economic data once again this week,
potentially, which means additional
importance for the earnings. Delta
Airlines reporting on Thursday. Look out
for that. The government still needs to
finance itself, so look out for 10-year
debt auction coming up on Wednesday,
too. We'll get $39 billion of 10-year
notes coming to market in addition to
the $22 billion of 30-year bonds that
come the day after. Fed minutes in
focus. Look out for the division at the
Federal Reserve, but ultimately for a
lot of equity market balls, it's not
about Fed policy. It's all about what's
happening with AI. Your equity market
shaping up as follows on the S&P 500, 7
days of gains on the S&P just about
unchanged this morning. We've seen it
across the board in conversations right
here on Bloomberg. UBS evidence of
possible melt-up into year-end. Evercore
increased probability of a bubble.
Evercore last week as well, Krishna
Guha, this is an incredibly
risk-friendly moment. And based on the
price action of the last 6 months, I
think a lot of you invested in this
market agree. Under Savannah's this
morning, the AI boom.
The reality is the the AI boom is is
real. It's not going to be a question
around hundreds of trillions hundreds of
billions of dollars of CapEx, but rather
trillions. It's really going to impact
and benefit multiple sectors of of the
US and the global economy. Not just
technology, lots of opportunity for
productivity gains, and ultimately maybe
a surprise to the upside in growth over
the next several years. The latest this
morning, AI enthusiasm lifting markets
to record highs and driving hopes of a
boom in productivity for the labor
market. Neil Dutta of Renaissance Macro
is unconvinced, writing folks are
conflating a productivity boom with a
disconnect in the data. AI adoption is
increasing, but historically
productivity does not increase alongside
adoption. Neil joins us now for more.
Neil, welcome to the program, sir. Just
that last line, can you just explain
that a little bit more? What do you mean
by that?
Well, sure. I mean, if you think about
and good morning, John. If you think
about
you know, just a business, like let's
say we're trying to integrate AI into
our workflow. That is a time-consuming
and arduous process that actually takes
away from productivity in the interim. I
can experience that in my own firm,
right? So,
um
that's that's the so-called part you
know, productivity paradox, right? Just
because it's all everywhere around you
doesn't mean that it's in the
productivity statistic necessarily. So,
I think what people are talking about in
the third quarter has really nothing to
do about about AI. And it doesn't, in my
opinion, represent the front edge of
some kind of productivity wave.
Usually takes a number of years before
you know, people and businesses
understand the technology, integrate the
technology into their work processes
processes, and then gain the maximum
productivity out of that that new
technology. So, it's it's probably Think
about the desktop computer, right? I
mean, that made its way into corporate
America probably sometime in the early
1990s. And it really wasn't until the
the mid to late 1990s that productivity
began to take off. So, do you think
potentially we're in a bubble when it
comes to what's going on in the stock
market?
I don't say bubble. I never say bubble.
I mean, I think that people
>> What do you call it? I mean, I think
that there's a lot of enthusiasm. People
feel I mean, there's certainly a bit of
a chase, right? Where people feel like
they need to
um
you know, buy into the into the
technology. You know, there is some of
that.
But you know, the market seems to be I
mean, there's sort of new economy
dynamics, right? At least for AI.
So, is that necessarily wrong? You know,
I'm not sure, but you know, I go back to
the kind of framing that I used earlier.
Like you have this
you know, sort of three
economies bucketed, right? You know, one
the housing market's in recession, one
the um
the the consumer is
you know, sort of in the middle. And
then you have this other piece, the AI
that's that's booming. And you certainly
have an element of people feeling that
they need to be invested in it, but it's
also
you know, investors betting on a a new
economy type dynamic. And there and and
all the sort of potential profits
that go with it. So, you know, who am I
to call that a bubble? Ed Yardeni was on
earlier in the program. He's very
excited about what's going on. He's
definitely bullish. And he also thinks
real wages will rise. Why do you think
he's wrong?
Well, he's I mean, again, I mean, well,
real wages aren't going up. They're
actually basically flat over the last
few months and you know, barely growing
at 1% over the last year, which is you
know, hardly consistent with the sort of
productivity productivity boom that
people are talking about. You know, at
the moment right now, the AI story is
um you know, you know, unlike the '90s,
I mean, it's creating a bit of fear in
the
you know, among among households, right?
Because
the employment loss is is substantial.
And you know, people or the threat. I
mean, I don't think any anything going
on with with employment right now has to
do with AI. But people are worried about
that threat. But if you look at it, I
mean, um there's a bit of a crowding out
going on, no? I mean, you have you know,
you utility costs going up because of
the data center buildout. You don't
really have much um employment growth
going on. So, why would anybody expect
real wages to go to grow at least for
the near term? You still have this
ongoing slowdown in the labor market to
contend with. So, we have I'm just
looking at the data. You haven't seen
real wages go up. You may, but you still
have to contend with this ongoing
slowdown in the labor market that I just
mentioned.
>> Neil, let's just stay on the data. You
mentioned electricity prices, the
tension that could be building on the
FOMC. Do you think that dual mandate is
going to come into conflict even more in
the months to come?
No, because I think it's going to be
increasingly obvious that the
unemployment situation is getting worse,
and the Fed will have no choice but to
continue to recalibrate policy. What
makes that obvious right now, Neil, to
you?
Well, number one, consumers continue to
to paint a picture of an ongoing slowing
in in the labor markets. Consumers tend
to tell
tend to spot changes in their local
economies before the official
statistics.
So, if consumers tell you things are
getting worse, I think it pays to
believe them. Second,
there's probably increasing downside
risk to residential construction
employment. We know that building
permits are at cycle lows. So, builders
who've hit their pivot point on margins
probably need to take steps to deal with
those margins. And that probably means
that residential construction
employment, which is bloated, starts to
come under pressure. And I think that'll
probably affect the broader labor market
in ways we don't yet understand. So, no,
I don't think the goals are going to
become more in tension. I think it's
going to be very obvious in in 6 months
what will need to be done. And because
labor markets will get worse,
inflation will take an even bigger back
a deeper backseat than it has right now.
And to the extent that the Fed can agree
on anything right now, they agree that
this is the risk management phase. Neil,
what's the next phase then? If we move
beyond risk management and we ultimately
have to confront the risk, we've got a
Governor Miron dot that is way south,
way below everyone else is. And I've
heard a lot of people throw some shade
at that dot over the past month. Do you
think that's a dot perhaps we should
take more seriously?
I mean, I think it's really about the
speed at which you get to his dot,
right? I mean, I don't think you
necessarily should take it seriously for
this year, but maybe you take it a
little bit more seriously next year.
Right? And certainly the risk is
the slower the Fed goes up front, the
bigger the risk is that they have to do
a little bit more later. So, you know, I
don't agree with him that you know,
longer run neutral rates are as low as
he says they are, but directionally, I
mean, come on. Like it's obvious that
that neutral rates are
are lower than where you know, the Fed
thinks, maybe by a little bit. So, it's
really about the magnitude that we're
disagreeing about, not necessarily
direction.
Neil, appreciate your time as always.
Good to see you. Neil Dutta there of
Renaissance Macro on the latest on the
economy. Without the data right now, but
ultimately some conviction from Neil.
And this has been building a long, long
time for Neil Dutta of Renaissance Macro
coming into 2025. He was worried about
the slowdown. And as far as he's
concerned and others, that labor market
has continued to slow down. Absolutely.
He's been talking about this even last
year. I'm glad you asked about Governor
Miron, because he took some heat
recently from former Treasury Secretary
Larry Summers. And Neil came to bat for
him, saying Steve Miron just staying on
the Fed after January campaign was just
made a massive contribution from one
Larry Summers. Yeah, the group think at
the Fed's been a problem for a while.
Yeah. And the Summers of this world has
contributed to that group think. Let's
put it that way. Yeah, and next year, I
think this is indicative of some of the
dialogue we're going
>> It's the new voices, don't we? These
establishment figures from the '90s
weighing in on things all the time. We
need some new voices, some fresh voices
in economics. Coming up next, Dan Skelly
of Morgan Stanley, Libby Cantrill with
Pimco, Kit Juckes of Aris Management,
and the Connecticut Governor Ned Lamont.
You have a global phenomenon of pretty
challenging fiscal situations.
>> We have to keep our eyes on the economic
reality of the global economy. The
bigger macro picture is getting more
confused. There is already a giant
question mark around what data should we
be using. Growth has been pretty solid,
and actually there's still hope for it
to reaccelerate in 2026. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Anne Marie
Hoerdern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning to you all
from our audience worldwide. The second
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance starts
right now. And your scores look like
this. All-time highs on the S&P 500,
7-day winning streak, the longest daily
winning run going back to May of this
year. Let's see if we can make it day
eight on the S&P. On the Nasdaq 100,
just about unchanged this morning.
Likewise on the Russell, small caps also
at a record. In the bond market, yields
have been bleeding higher over the last
24 hours, led by developments in France
and Japan. It continues this morning, up
by basis point or two on 10s and 30s
going into an auction tomorrow for
10-year government bonds. And the day
after, we'll get 30s. The main event
this morning in the premarket, just this
monster move we're seeing in a very
small name, but an important one,
Trilogy Metals, up by more than 200%
in the premarket as the government takes
a stake.
>> Knock knock knock, US government on the
door looking to take a 10% stake in yet
another company. Obviously, it's very
clear what this administration is going
after, going after companies where they
can get access to these critical raw
materials in a way to compete with
China. The way they're doing it has some
people unnerved whether they want to say
it out loud or not, especially
Republicans in Washington D.C. You could
say this is national security or you
could say this is state capitalism. And
there have been a number of instances
already we've seen from this
administration and Trilogy is just the
latest.
>> When you make deals as a private
investor, you are described as being an
entrepreneur, a deal maker. When you
make those same deals when you're a
government official, you will be accused
of conducting central panic. And that's
the criticism that will come with these
kind of deals. Absolutely. And the
question mark is, besides this
competition with China and getting
access on these rare materials, whether
you need it for supply chain steel build
out, the AI data centers and everything
the stock market is pinning their hopes
and dreams on, is this question of what
happens in 4 years time, 8 years time?
And is there really going to be
competition in this space if the US
government continues to just make all of
these acquisitions in it? And does it
mean that are we going to get a
sovereign wealth fund or not? And is it
really fair if the administration is not
being up front with what they actually
are doing? Are they going to make a
sovereign wealth fund cuz they're not
being explicit about it?
>> What a move on that stock, up 220%.
>> Five employees. Wowza, in a pre-market
right now. We'll stay on top of that for
you. Coming up this hour, Dan Skelly of
Morgan Stanley with Wall Street hitting
new highs, Libby Cantrill of Pimco as
the US makes a push to win the AI arms
race, and Kip Deaver of Ares with
massive investments feeding the tech
boom. We begin this hour with stocks
hovering their record highs. Dan Skelly
of Morgan Stanley saying tech bubble
talk may be misplaced. He writes the
following, "While abandoning basic
investing principles of diversification
and risk management is never a good
idea, the market's longer-term tailwinds
remain intact." Dan joins us now for
more. you, Monica. Good to see you.
Great to see you, John. What are those
longer-term tailwinds? What are they?
We're we're definitely seeing momentum
in the economy. So, the services sectors
continue to hum along really strongly.
The high-end consumer continues to push
forward as well. And then of course, the
AI economy, right? We estimate that AI
spending equated to about 100 basis
points of second quarter GDP. So, call
it over a quarter of the economic growth
is coming from this AI super cycle. Is
it just a handful of companies or is it
more than that? Because at the moment,
for some people at least, the criticism
I've heard from analysts that have come
on this program, too, is that this is
very circular. It's the same money just
changing hands and going round and
round. Is it more than that? There's
part of that, no doubt. I mean, you're
starting to see leverage starting to be
used as well to fund some of the
investments. Prior to that, it'd been
strictly cash flow. So, that's something
we're keeping an eye on, John, but we're
definitely seeing no end in sight in
terms of the spending increases going
into well into next year. When John says
circular, in my mind I'm thinking of
what's going on with OpenAI and Nvidia
and now AMD, but is it also circular to
the point of the US government given the
fact that they're taking stakes in a
number of companies? And you talked
about how AI spend is basically 100
basis points of GDP.
Yeah, and and so it's an excellent
question, Anne Marie. I guess the way to
look at it, it's it's also the absence
of a negative. Do you want the
government to over-regulate things as
well? And I think for prior years, prior
administrations, we heard a lot about
regulation across not just tech, but
energy, financials, etc. And so, you
know, it's a question of which path do
you take? Uh and I think in many ways,
uh looking at all the leadership and
management teams of the leading tech
companies partnering with the
administration, it's probably not a bad
thing. If you want to have a hedge and
maybe you're just kind of getting over
the gold rally and you've had enough,
what are you looking at?
Excellent another excellent question.
So, the one thing gold does not provide
is income. And when you look at factors
year to date in the equity market, it's
been a momentum market. In many ways,
it's been a beta and realized value
market, so a little bit lower quality.
So, what we're advising clients right
now, particularly on the individual
investor side, is look at some dividend
yield and dividend growers. They've been
out of favor, but if we get a little bit
of a consolidation in the near term,
they should be a decent hedge.
>> Let's stay on track with that. Let's
just stay on that theme. What's the
relationship at the moment between
government bond yields and what's
happening with gold? Because yesterday
was an interesting moment when we had
developments in France and Japan pushing
government bond yields higher globally.
At the same time, the rally in gold
continued because of the concerns of the
governance issues in those countries.
What's the traditional relationship and
what is it now? Yeah, uh typically uh
rising rates should have been uh I think
pretty solid for gold, should have been
a positive correlation. I think in many
ways though, John, gold is taking on a
lot new attributes and there's other
inputs going into that calculation. Uh
let's keep in mind that uh certain
members of the Treasury Department and
certain members of the private sector
who went to Washington, uh famous
robotics and car uh makers, were
supposed to be fiscal hawks. And you've
seen the quite the opposite, right? So,
there's this other big driver going on
in terms of the deficit widening still
on the back of the tax deal. And this is
bullish for gold. These are some things
that typically central banks might want
to slow down. It feels like it's very
different this time. Mary Daly, the San
Francisco Fed president, talking to
Axios today saying that ultimately the
stock market would not threaten broader
financial stability and that the AI
bubble isn't a financial stability
threat even if there was one. Do you
share that sentiment at the moment?
>> We don't see AI as a bubble and and
frankly, one of the reasons for which is
the earnings power of the leading
companies continues to increase. So, the
Mag 7 as a as an important example,
wears this interesting duality hat. It's
the biggest spenders, but also at the
moment the biggest initial
beneficiaries. Uh Mag 7 earnings growth
year over year in the second quarter was
up 28%. Rest of market was up only 4%.
We think that nominal GDP did about 7%
in the second quarter. So, what that
means is a lot of other companies are
either taking it on the chin from
tariffs and profitability hit or they're
just not monetizing AI enough as they
adopt. And so, at the moment, the
earnings power is so strong still in Mag
7 and the leading AI companies that we
don't see a bubble. You like the banks.
That's one of your top sector picks. Why
is that? We do. So, we've liked the
banks for well over a year and that's
been a winning theme for a while. But
first off, we still think there's tariff
P&L risk on the horizon for lower
quality businesses that have supply
chain risk. As a domestic industry,
banks don't share that risk. Number two,
capital markets have been recovering
really strongly in the last 3 to 6
months. Uh and and lastly, I would just
say deregulation, right? This is a
sector that had been, per my comment
earlier, pretty uh onerously regulated
for 10-plus years and we're seeing those
fetters come off. A lot of people like
the banks now because of the Trump
administration. Do you expect more
consolidation as well when it comes to
financials? No doubt, Anne Marie. So,
when you look at the history, uh anytime
you go through uh big structural shifts,
whether it be uh 1980s savings and loan,
whether it be 2000, the tech crash. So,
we've just continued to see this
narrowing of the regional bank sphere in
particular. We had something like 8,500
banks going back 30 or 40 years ago.
Today, that's 4,500 banks. When you look
at other developed markets, major
developed markets like Canada as an
example, many fewer leading banks there.
So, we definitely continue to see
consolidation in the regional banking
sphere. When investors say they like the
deregulation push from the Trump
administration, can you pinpoint exactly
what that is? Sh- uh sure, one of the
biggest uh levers is capital
constraints, right? So, I think in the
coming months and in quarters, you're
going to see more more uh alleviation
around capital and that's going to flow
back into bank what banks can do on the
M&A front, no doubt, returning
shareholder capital or just loan growth.
I think ironically, one of the things
people have looked at is this
winner-take-all AI spending environment
and lost sight of the fact that overall
loan growth is actually also improving
across the rest of the economy. Dan,
just to finish on that.
>> Sure. Where this growth has come from
and what's funded it, I think is a
really important piece of this
conversation, particularly with regard
to the CapEx spend. Where is the cash
coming from? And what's the difference
between previous infrastructure cycles
of decades gone by, how debt-financed it
was before relative to what we're seeing
now? Sure. Not only was there a debt and
equity issuance in the late '90s, but
many of the leading tech spenders
themselves did not have as proven
business models. So, let's just not
forget for a minute that Mag 7 is really
Fang plus three. And so, this has been a
winning cohort for 15-plus years. It's
super hard to bet against this this
group of leading companies uh because
they typically have the capital and the
talent and the foresight to just go into
whatever the next big theme is, whether
it was consumer-related technology in
the 2010 period, whether it was uh
certainly cloud 2016 onward, whether
it's AI today, it'll be robotics next
and quantum in the future. That pivots
in hard, that's for sure. Dan is good to
see you. Thanks for dropping by. Thank
you, sir. Appreciate it. Dan Skelly
there of Morgan Stanley. Equities at the
moment recovering on the S&P 500, very
close to all-time highs. We are on a
7-day winning run on the benchmark state
side. With an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief,
let's cross over to Lizzie Burden. Hey,
Lizzie.
Hey, John. French President Emmanuel
Macron gave outgoing Prime Minister
Sébastien Lecornu 48 hours to negotiate
with the country's political parties to
prevent the country from falling deeper
into crisis. Lecornu's task is to define
a platform for action and stability for
the country by Wednesday evening, after
which Macron will decide his next steps.
Elsewhere, the Trump administration is
exploring options to sell some of the
federal government student loan
portfolio. Politico reporting that
discussions have taken place among
senior education and Treasury Department
officials to sell parts of its $1.6
trillion debt to the private market. And
the air traffic controllers union's
reminding workers that failure to show
up for the job could lead to
termination. The warning coming after
Transportation Secretary Shawn Duffy
pointed out a rise in sick calls since
the government shut down. Air traffic
controllers and TSA officers are
expected to work until they receive back
pay once funding is restored. And that
should be my brief, John. Lizzy, thank
you. More from Lizzy in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on the program, mine, baby
mine.
President Trump, when he said drill,
baby, drill, he also was mine, baby,
mine. And this mine, airing out there,
we have copper, lead, zinc, gold,
silver, gallium, germanium.
So rich in in all of the minerals that
we need for the to win the AI arms race
against China. That conversation up next
with Libby Cantrill of Pimco. Live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
Live from New York City. Welcome back to
the program. Equity futures on the S&P
500 doing okay. A couple of things to
look out for. Some programming notes.
Later on this morning, about 15 minutes
from now, Lisa sitting down with Kip
DeVeer, the Ares Management co-president
on the AI boom. Look out for that and
look out for this. Jamie Dimon, the CEO
and chairman of JP Morgan Chase, joining
Tom Mackenzie over in London, 11:40
Eastern time. That's a few hours from
now. I mentioned a broader market, 7-day
winning run on the S&P 500 pulling back
just a touch, not even by 10th of 1%.
Virtually unchanged also on the Nasdaq
100. Likewise on the Russell. There's a
big mover out there. Let's talk about
it. Under Savannah's this morning, mine,
baby mine.
President Trump, when he said drill,
baby, drill, he also was mine, baby,
mine. We've got to get back in the
mining business. China controls
85 to 100% of all the mining and
refining of the top 20 critical
minerals. And in this mine, airing out
there, we have copper, lead, zinc, gold,
silver, gallium, germanium. So rich in
in all of the minerals that we need for
the to win the AI arms race against
China. So here's the latest this
morning. The White House taking a 10%
stake in Trilogy Metals, securing energy
and mining projects in Alaska. With the
latest is Bloomberg's Dana Candace. Hi,
Dana.
Yeah, hey John. So this company has
these mining claims in a remote area of
Alaska. And importantly, the deal comes
in tangent with President Trump
reversing a Biden-era decision which
blocked something known as the Ambler
Road project. This is a controversial
project that would build an access road
to this mineral-rich mining district in
Alaska. And as part of the deal, the
Trump administration is going to invest
$35 million for Trilogy to conduct
exploration in this area in exchange for
a 10% stake in the company. Now, the
White House says that this is a bid to
try to loosen China's grip on the
critical mineral supply chain. And if we
look at the data from last year, China
was responsible for about 70% of global
output when it came to rare earths. But
this really does continue a more
hands-on approach when it comes to
industrial policy. Just look at the
deals made so far this year by the Trump
administration. A 15% stake in MP
Materials, a 10% stake in Intel, a 5%
stake in Lithium Americas announced last
week. Not to mention the so-called
golden share when it came to the Nippon
acquisition. Plus that agreement where
Nvidia and AMD were going to give the US
government part of its China chip sales.
Now, the White House says the common
theme here is that this all has to do
with national security interests. Even
as critics say that this could hurt
competition and give an unfair
advantage. John, importantly here,
Trilogy is a Vancouver-based company.
The Canadian Prime Minister, Mark
Carney, is set to visit the White House
for his second Oval Office meeting
today. And no doubt this is going to be
on the agenda.
>> He might have some thoughts about that,
I'm sure. Dana, thank you. Dana Candace
in Washington, D.C. Here in New York,
Libby Cantrill of Pimco. Libby, good
morning. Good morning. MP Materials,
Lithium Americas. Here's another one.
Some of these names I've never heard of
until this morning. Trilogy Metals up by
more than 200%. What is the overall
objective here? What are we trying to
do? Well, I think that that a couple of
things here. One is that this does
exemplify that this president really
does support industrial policy. He has
no problem, obviously, picking winners
and losers. That is very much a
divergence traditionally from the
Republican Party, who have always
preferred the private market to to
function and and to pick winners and
losers. I think second is just that this
underscores the importance from a
national security perspective for the
for the president, right? He is doing
these all these things in the name of
the AI race in the in the name of
competition with with China.
And third, I think it it just
importantly is that there is a limit to
all of this, right? I think that, you
know, we find that our clients get
confused with these, you know, sums of
money being kind of bandied around. And
Congress usually has to actually
allocate the money for these types of
investments. They're using They're sort
of dipping into, you know, other
reserves or what have you. But for big,
significant investments, you'd have to
go to Congress. So these things are sort
of nibbling around the edges, right? You
know, $35 million.
But I do think it obviously underscores
that this president's very comfortable
with, again, picking winners and losers.
Do you think this is the road to a
sovereign wealth fund?
Again, I mean, not to get not to get
sort of process-oriented here, but you
would actually need Congress to really
facilitate a sovereign wealth fund. Even
with tariff revenue, right? I think
there's a lot of confusion about this.
That even though the tariff revenue is
associated with a policy that the
president obviously has put forward,
how that those those monies are
allocated are in the discretion of
Congress. So, you know, if if Congress
decides with the president that they
want to, you know, create a sovereign
wealth fund, that might be something.
But really for something to be full
summit to have it function in the way
the sovereign wealth fund does, it would
need it would need Congress. Obviously,
we're also in a deficit country. So So I
I think, you know, just editorializing,
that may not make the most sense.
Whether it's Trump, whether it's Biden,
what are the limits of masking whatever
you want to do with national security?
Yeah, I mean, the statute, as you know,
is very broad. Obviously, the president
has used section 232 of the 1962 Trade
Expansion Act for many of his tariffs.
That is in sort of this realm of
national security. I think you could,
you know, quibble around, you know,
maybe the national security importance
of let's say the lumber. So some of
these things that he's putting tariffs
on are trucks.
You know, he's using the statute. But
the courts historically have given the
president wide discretion. So I do think
that we will continue to see him using
at least the pretense of national
security. Whether some of that gets
litigated, I think it's, you know, open
question.
>> with central planning. I'm sympathetic
with the objectives, but uncomfortable
with central planning. I also think you
have to be careful what you normalize
when you're in power. Mhm. For when
you're not. What happens if someone else
is in control of the dials? And they
have other ideas about what to invest
and what to take stakes in.
>> This is what a lot of conservatives who
are a little bit more traditional, I
would say Romney Republicans, are
concerned about. What happens 2028? For
8 years time when you have a maybe a
Democrat in power that actually likes
this idea. Brian Gardner on this program
today, when we were saying, debating, is
this state capitalism, national
security? He said, let's come out and
call it what it is. It's social. Trilogy
Metals is up by more than 200%. We joked
earlier this morning that the asset
management wing of the White House is
open and the government is shut down.
Let's talk about the government shut
down.
A question we've posed continuously over
the past week is whether this is
different, whether the normal rules
apply, whether you hit the inevitable
pressure points, and ultimately we just
reopen. Is it different this time? Well,
it does feel different in that people
feel very comfortable with their own
political positions right now. So
Republicans feel seem very comfortable
sort of digging in.
And they're claiming that they've
already done their work, right? That the
House has passed the sort of
straight-line funding bill gets them to
to November, some time to, you know, to
work out the appropriations bills. On
the other hand, Democrats, who've
historically supported those sort of
straight-line funding bills, are
claiming that, you know, this, in
addition to funding the government, they
need obviously address ACA subsidies and
some other things. So I think that is
the thing that feels different about
this. Is there there's not really kind
of hair on fire, get all the members
back and work it to get a resolution.
Obviously, the House is not back in
session. They may not be back for the
foreseeable future. We'll see that.
We'll see what what Speaker Johnson does
next week. Um so there seems to be a
calm and a comfort that I don't think
has really existed in the in the
previous shutdowns. You know, sadly,
I've done this enough, so I've seen
enough enough shutdowns. And usually
there is more of a kind of an alarmist
sort of flavor, more of a sense of
urgency. Does the alarmist flavor come
when people don't get paid? I do think,
you know, so October 15th, that's
something that's an inflection point
that we pegged for our clients. That's
obviously when a whole swath of the
government won't get paid, but
particularly, you know, active duty
members of the military. So is that
going to be the inflection point?
Potentially.
There also could be some wiggle room
with the money that
Congress has appropriated to the Defense
Department. You could see, I think,
President Trump trying to dip into that
money to pay service people. So that
date could come and go, and the and the
government could still could still be
shut down.
>> And what about the billions the farmers
are supposed to get? When do they get
them if the government is shut? Yeah, I
mean, that is also an open question. And
again, not to be so negative Nancy here,
but you you really do need to go to
Congress in order to allocate that money
as well. There's some fungibility in
terms of the ag the ag budget. But
really for the money amount of money
that the president is talking about, you
know, $50 billion for farmers, you would
have to have that
money. The money
The money is not there, and you need you
need Congress to actually allocate that.
So I think that, you know, the big
question though for our clients, for you
know, our traders, is does is this a
market event? And of course, I think
that, you know, the conventional wisdom,
which I think is right, is this is not
really until it is, right? This is not
going to be if this is just a two week
shutdown. But once you get kind of past
that two week period, of course this is
a full shutdown meaning that they
haven't passed any appropriations bills.
So, you know, BLS is shut down.
Obviously the Department of Defense is
is is shut and what have you. And that
is when I think there is a risk of you
get this sort of non-linear economic
effects, right? You know, a tenth of a
point being shaved off of GDP a week not
necessarily a big deal. But once you
actually have a prolonged shutdown, you
sort have sunk costs in terms of lost
GDP activity. So that is a I think again
maybe a caution caution to this very
bullish market is that if this is
prolonged which it looks like it could
be, then you could get into a territory
where it does actually it is different
cuz we actually haven't had a
full shutdown ever past 16 days.
>> You mentioned the government being
comfortable with the situation right
now. I think Wall Street is too because
basically given all the ones you've
seen, it's growth delayed not derailed.
Now, key question this time around is
whether the furloughs are actually
firings.
Do you think it is going to be one
versus Yeah, and I think that is
obviously I mean this labor market as
you all very well know pretty fragile
right now. So is could this be yet
another shock to that labor market and
could sort of tip over? I mean, you
know, our our economists are saying that
there are a lot of indicators that look
sort of pre-recessionary not necessarily
that we're going into a recession. But
if you just look at sort of the
fragilities behind some of these labor
market statistics that it's looking sort
of similar to 2008 or 2000.
So you know, I will will the furloughs
turn into firings? I think that's a
that's a sort of an open question. I
think there's a political dynamic there.
I'm not sure this really reads well for
the president. So, you know, is this
more bluster and the kind of reality is
much different? That's what I would sort
of suspect. But again kind of open open
question. And if this goes for a long
time then I think that kind of all bets
are off honestly. That would certainly
change how people think about the
economic impact the consequences.
Absolutely. And so far the threat hasn't
worked in terms of I'm still watching
the senators from Virginia and Maryland
and they haven't caved yet. And they're
the ones that are going to be hurt the
most when it comes to a government
shutdown.
>> Libby Cantrill from Pimco. Libby good to
see you. Thanks for dropping by. Thank
you very much not just on the government
shutdown but also this major move in the
premarket of a name that many of you
including myself had never heard of
Trilogy Metals in the premarket up by
more than 200%. We joked a few times. We
mentioned it earlier on this morning
that there's going to be a lot of
investors out there going through all of
these different mining companies trying
to work out who's next.
>> what I'm doing late at night when I come
in and I'm tired. I'm just trying to
figure out who is going to be next
because this administration has made it
pretty clear what the direction of
travel is. If you have any stakes in raw
materials, if you can have copper,
steel, anything that the United States
needs to get its hands on when it comes
to because they can't get them right now
with China, they're going to take a
stake. It doesn't matter if there's only
five employees at the company. Big move
in early trading. Coming up on the
program we'll catch up with Kip Tire of
Ares Management as massive investments
feed the AI boom. Plus Yahara has your
morning movers. Oscar Health rising on
possible talks in Washington. The stock
is up by 6.5%.
[Music]
Not used to this. Over the last week
things have been pretty electric.
Particularly yesterday morning. This
morning unchanged bit snoozy. Equities
going nowhere on the S&P 500 likewise on
the Nasdaq 100. Let's get you an update
on some single names your morning
movers. Here's Yahara with more. Hey
Yahara. Hi John. Nvidia has the Midas
touch. Shares of Iron are soaring 8%
after the data center company said it
secured new multi-year cloud contracts
to deploy Nvidia's Blackwell chips. And
in a sign of strong demand for those
chips, Iron says that customers are
signing deals before those chips are
even delivered or installed. Meanwhile,
moving on to Intercontinental Exchange.
This is the owner of the NYSE. Shares
are up 3% on a reporting that it is in
talks to invest $2 billion into
Polymarket. The platform of course is
known for allowing customers to bet on
yes or no questions on everything from
sports to pop culture. And famously
was known for correctly correctly
calling President Trump's 2024 election
win. The Wall Street Journal reports a
deal could come as soon as today. And
Oscar Health shares are rising 6 and
3/4% after President Trump signaled that
he might extend Affordable Care Act
subsidies as part of a deal with
Democrats to end the government
shutdown. Since ACA plans are a big
revenue source for insurers like Oscar
Health, cutting the subsidies could be
detrimental for the company. So these
latest developments offering investors a
bit of hope. John. Yahara, thank you.
Thanks for the update. More from Yahara
in the next hour on our way down this
morning. President Donald Trump briefly
signaling he's open to shutdown
negotiations before walking that back
and saying Democrats must first reopen
the government. But his parties
remaining at odds over healthcare
subsidies. Elsewhere, Trilogy Metals is
soaring this morning on news that the US
will take a 10% stake in the Canadian
minerals explorer. It's part of a more
than $35 million investment secure
critical energy and mining projects in
Alaska. And finally, the Trump
administration also planning to unveil
new support for US farmers struggling
with tariffs and trade disputes. The
potential bailout package could be worth
more than 10 billion. But it's not yet
clear where the money's going to come
from. Libby Cantrill from Pimco was dead
on about this. They could draw from a
fund they have. But the reports that
only about three or four billion is left
in that fund. So to get the remainder,
if you want to give the farmers a 10 to
15 billion dollar bailout which likely
they're going to need given the fact
that China has not signed up for any
cargos, you're going to have to go to
Congress. And the problem right now is
we're in a government shutdown and to
everyone's point there's been no urgency
at the moment to reopen it.
>> And then we get closer to the midterms
and the pressure continues to build not
just from the farmers but also consumers
who might want some relief as well. And
you wonder what comes next.
>> Yeah. And also you think about
potentially also Jonathan another
pressure point we haven't talked about
today. What's going to happen when it
comes to the FAA? You already see the
transportation secretary saying you are
expected to show up for work. No more
sick days. You have to be at work even
though the government's shutting down.
When you start to have delays on
flights, that was the pressure point in
2019. Do you hit the inevitable pressure
points and this story ends? Is it the
same story as usual or is it ultimately
somehow different this time? That's the
latest on the government shutdown and
other stories too down in Washington DC.
Let's get you the latest on tech. AI
investment very much in focus. Lisa
joins us now from the Greenwich Economic
Forum with a special guest. Good morning
Lisa.
Good morning John. Yeah, here it is not
a government shutdown. It's a beautiful
morning in front of a beautiful
waterfront. Now I'm here with Kip Tire
who's the co-president of Ares
Management which oversees almost $600
billion.
And Kip, thank you so much for being
with us.
>> It's great to be here. I do want to
start where John was talking about this
idea of the tech buildout and how much
private asset managers have been
instrumental in that. I'm just wondering
how much you are continuing to
accelerate your investments into digital
infrastructure given that everyone is
worried about an AI bubble. Are we
investing too much? Are we seeing the
fruitions of our money? Sure. So we've
sort of transitioned that business to be
broader in its scope. Historically we've
been largely a lender to the space. So
senior lender and a mezzanine investor
as well through our through our debt
infrastructure business. We did a recent
acquisition that you may be aware of of
a of a business focused on industrial
logistics investing mostly in Japan but
it's global and they have real digital
infrastructure development capability.
So we've started to roll that out. We've
done two completed projects now in
Tokyo. We have a third underway just on
the outskirts of London. So we're
getting more active on the development
front.
I think that the measured approach that
we've taken getting into the market
doesn't frankly put our investors at
risk, right? Our goal is to
generate great returns for our
investors. So we think if you stay in
tricky markets I hard to find entitled
land and then you're building really
high quality facilities which we think
we are because we have an in-house team
that came with the acquisition.
It's pretty easy for us to find great
leases from investment grade tenants
like hyperscalers. Are you passing up
opportunities that concern you? Do you
see things out there that you worry
about? I think we're selective and I
think if you look historically
in areas like this over the last 20 or
30 years, typically when this much
capacity comes online, some of it at the
end of the day is going to have to be
marginal, right? These trends tend to
lead to overbuilds in certain places. So
I think us being selective and being
measured in what we build is super super
important. One thing that we've seen
over the past five years is an
incredible consolidation of market
capitalization of the biggest asset
managers, the biggest private asset
managers. I'm thinking of the ones that
you won't name like Apollo and KKR and
of course Ares.
I'm just wondering whether you think
this is the sort of path to follow. That
you think the biggest are going to only
get bigger and dominate the space.
>> we we believe since since the beginning
frankly of the company that the more
scaled platform both in terms of
diversity of asset classes but also
diversity of geographies was a huge
advantage. Right? So we think we get
better information. We participate more
markets. We probably do better due
diligence because we have better access
points.
So I think the
both investing advantages but also the
capital raising advantages are real and
and you'll see you see that with the
growth of Ares, with the growth of
Apollo, with the growth of all the you
know, Blackstone, KKR, all these folks
that that have consolidated share for
sure.
>> actually did see another record year for
fundraising and it feels like it's
accelerating with respect to how easily
it is uh,
to really get interest from investors.
What's sort of been the tipping point?
Where are you seeing that interest
really coming from?
>> Yeah, I mean, I I
we grew up raising most of the capital
from the firm from institutions. So, it
was pensions, sovereign wealth funds,
etc., etc. And we've really diversified
the way that we raise capital today. So,
I would say an increased focus on the
wealth channel,
uh, for sure. An increased focus on what
our insurance clients are looking for
because they're very challenged in a
tight spread lower rate environment. Um,
so it's just become more and more
diverse and I think as we're able to
educate and offer access to investors
that didn't have access to certain
products before, there's just a lot of
uptakes from from a new set of clients
that are interested in what we can
deliver at Ares. How much is that going
to be turbocharged by some of what's
coming out of Washington, D.C. to open
up some of the private asset management
field to, uh, 401k accounts?
>> Look, I mean, I think, um,
our view is that it's probably a ways
off, uh, for that to really provide a
lot of lift, but we are incredibly
supportive, obviously, of bringing our
products into channels where there's
interest. And I do think that those
groups of investors today who have not
had access to alternatives deserve
access to alternatives.
So, right now, one thing that is another
theme for the year has been American
exceptionalism and this question of, is
it still the best place to invest? And I
wonder as the co-president of Ares
whether you see the greatest opportunity
in the United States or whether you
increasingly are expanding overseas that
you see better investment opportunities
>> Well, I mean, so I think holistically
we've been looking to expand
geographically for a host of different
reasons just to give our investors more
access points in terms of geographic
diversification and asset class
diversification. But to actually answer
your question, I do think, uh, despite
some of the instability that people may
feel here that most of the investors
that we see around the world are most
excited still about investing in
America. It's one thing that we've seen
sort of this idea that everything was
going to fall apart in the first half
and suddenly we're talking about a
re-acceleration and suddenly the M&A
that everyone had been expecting is
coming back online. We're actually
seeing those deals come to place. How
active has it gotten for you? I mean,
how much are you seeing this in your
business?
>> Well, so I mean, look, the first three
to four months of the year were pretty
rocky particularly up through April and
that really slowed transaction volume
everywhere. But I'd say in most of the
asset classes that we're in, everything
has rallied back to where it was
pre-liberation day and even through
that. So, credit spreads are incredibly
tight whether you look at high-grade
corporates or high-yield or loans, um,
the equity markets are obviously up
through highs. Um,
the thing most excited about is actually
kind of a shift for folks that see maybe
some of those markets as expensive into
some of our real assets businesses. So,
the recovery in real estate, which we
think is is real, uh, is offering a lot
of opportunity for us to kind of play
into the sectors that we like. We we
refer to kind of as the new economy real
estate. So, that's industrial, that's
logistics, it's self storage, it's
multi-family. And we're seeing, we
talked about it for a moment earlier, a
lot of, uh, investment in the
infrastructure space whether it's
traditional or digital.
>> How much is that predicated on the idea
of Fed rate cuts or how much is that
completely independent and a sort of
secular bet on some sort of shift in the
economy? Um, I don't think it's
particularly, you know,
relying on rate cuts. I think rate cuts
help equity more than it helps credit
and lending businesses. Um,
so, our own view is the yield curve is
probably over predicting cuts. I I
frankly think the economy here is is
pretty good.
Um, and policy, while it's a bit
restrictive, uh, doesn't seem to be
slowing too much down here in the
states. So, transaction activity is
picking up and valuations, as I
mentioned, have recovered in almost
every asset class. So, I do think we'll
see a slow decrease here in rates to try
to provide some relief and keep the
economic growth that's slowed growing.
Um, but my own view is I I don't think
rates are going to go down as quickly as
maybe you're reading about in the
newspaper. So, I have a feeling I know
how you're going to answer but what
concerns you more, some sort of downturn
in the next 6 months or some sort of
re-acceleration in inflation?
The latter. The latter. I mean, I think
we see the economy is good although the
growth has slowed and that's partially
as a result of rate increases, you know,
by design to obviously try to deal with
inflation, but I think that the the real
scary moment is that if you see a
re-igniting of inflation and the Fed has
to really dramatically rethink their
their policy, which I think has been one
to leave rates where they are
reduce them a bit, which is obviously
going to accommodate more growth and and
more rise in valuation. Kip Tindell,
thank you so much for being with us.
This is really fun. Let's do it again.
This is Kip Tindell of, uh, co-president
of Ares Management. John, I'll send it
back to you. Lisa, thank you. Great work
as always. More from Bremo in just a
moment, so stay tuned. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. With your Bloomberg Brief,
let's cross over to Lizzie Burden for
more. Hey, Lizzie.
Hey, John. Representatives of Israel and
Hamas have begun discussions over a deal
that would free all remaining Israeli
hostages in exchange for thousands of
Palestinian prisoners. US President
Donald Trump is pressing Israel and
Hamas to secure an agreement as the war
hits the 2-year mark since it began. The
talks are set to continue for a second
day in Egypt. Elsewhere, Elon Musk has
appointed former Morgan Stanley banker
Anthony Armstrong as the new CFO at xAI.
The Financial Times reporting that he'll
head up the finance function for both
xAI and social media platform X.
Armstrong previously worked for the
Trump administration as a senior advisor
to the Office to Personnel Management as
Musk enacted dodge cost-cutting efforts.
And Ford is facing months of disruptions
after a major fire at a New York
aluminum plant. The Wall Street Journal
reports that the company will likely
outline the fallout in its quarterly
earnings this month and a large part of
the facility will be out of service
until early 2026.
And that should be your brief, John.
Aluminum, aluminum. You see Lizzie
there?
Getting sucked in. So easy to get sucked
in. It's very
>> a sudden it's aluminum. Then it's
sidewalk.
>> It's aluminum for you. You're sucked
You're fully sucked in. In 10 years, I'm
fully bought in. I'm not going anywhere.
Lizzie, thank you. Appreciate it. Have a
nice one on the program. Neither party
is stepping up to the plate.
Neither party is stepping up to the
plate to to deal with or grapple with
the reality that the United States needs
to endure a fair amount of fiscal reform
to be on a path for long-term
sustainability. Have a nice one. We'll
catch up with the Connecticut Governor
Ned Lamont from New York City this
morning. Good morning. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Spent the whole commercial break taking
abuse. You finished now. There are some
British words that I just find so
ridiculous that you should just say the
American English version. Like the word
schedule.
It's not schedule. It's schedule. I
know. So, you're fine. You're one of us
now.
>> thank you. Thanks for adopting me.
>> Welcome. All right. Equities on the S&P
500 just about unchanged. Likewise on
the Nasdaq. Likewise on the Russell
unchanged after hitting fresh all-time
highs to kick off the brand new trading
week. And believe it or not, we've not
had a single down day for the month of
October.
Let's see if that continues.
>> called October. October. Nice. Is that
yours? No, I think that's, uh, people on
Twitter.
>> Okay, I've seen that one. Okay, that's a
new one. All right. Record highs coming
into Tuesday morning. And as Evan is
this morning, neither party is stepping
up to the plate.
Neither party is stepping up to the
plate to to deal with or grapple with
the reality that the United States needs
to endure a fair amount of fiscal reform
to be on a path for long-term
sustainability. This shutdown is
symbolic of a different problem, which
is the dysfunction between the
Republican and Democratic Party on
resolving
issues with respect to the budget of the
United States of America. So, here's the
latest this morning. Wall Street growing
frustrated with Washington pushing for
fiscal reform as the shutdown enters its
seventh day. Lisa joins us now from the
Greenwich Economic Forum with another
special guest. Hey, Bremo.
Hey, John. Thanks so much. I am here
with Governor Ned Lamont of the great
state of Connecticut, uh, in this
October, is that what, uh,
Enver called it? In in Connecticut in
the Delamar Harbor. And, uh, Governor,
thank you so much for being with us. I
want to start with something that's an
increasingly hot topic. We're here at a
leader of businesses with the leaders of
businesses who oversee huge portfolios
of money. How as Governor do you keep
attracting this type of business to the
state while providing some of the social
services and other expenses that cause
taxes to go up?
Well, the folks here at the Greenwich
Economic Forum are really important to
the state. And, uh, the fintech sector,
the financial services sector, a big
piece of our economy, we're part of the
New York City financial ecosystem. I I
think, uh, what they like here is a
little bit of certainty and stability.
They sort of know where the state's
going to go. Our taxes a little bit
less. And, um, it's not a bad lifestyle.
Are you concerned about what would
happen if, say, there is a changeover in
the leadership in New York City? Let's
say, mayoral candidate, uh, Zephyr
Teachout
does win and implement some of the
policies that he puts out there. Are you
concerned about the ramifications for a
place like Greenwich truly relies on the
ecosystem of the tri-state region?
Little bit.
New York City is the financial capital,
uh, of the world. And we're a big piece
of it here as evidence at the Economic
Forum. And I want to make sure that the
next mayor understands how important New
York City is to that system, and that's
important to Connecticut. How concerned
are you about who the leader is in the
Democratic Party right now? Do you have
a sense of where the leadership really
is coming from? Governors.
Okay, I'm a little uh loaded for bear on
that. I like governors. Governors have
to get stuff done. Uh governors have to
balance the budget. They have to do it
on time. Governors can't shut down a
government. Governors are sort of the
opposite of what you see going on in
Washington. I think on both sides uh but
in our case, the Democrats are seeing
real leadership coming from the
governors. But don't ask me to ask
names. Well, but I'm wondering though,
how does a governor take that leadership
when things are shut down in Washington,
D.C., and when it seems like there's a
real fissure right now in the party in
tactics, in approach, in platform?
I can tell you the governor's incredibly
frustrated. Um Democrats are louder
about it than Republicans. You know, we
we balance our budget. We do it based
upon some assumptions in terms of what
our relationship is with the federal
government. They pull the rug out from
under you every week seems to be
happening right now. It makes it very
difficult for that certainty and
stability that the people in this room
like. How much have you seen actual
ramifications from the government
shutdown in the form of funding that
isn't coming through?
It's not my first rodeo with these um
Trump shutdowns. Um so we went through
all of our commissioners. We saw what's
at most at risk. Where do you have
reserves? WIC, which is women, infant,
and children, probably only had a week's
worth of reserve there. So we'd figure
out how we backstop that. SNAP, which
is, you know, food benefits, that's the
end of this month. So we're watching
very carefully where the risk is. And I
can't make up all the shortfall, but I'm
trying my best to help out the most
vulnerable. Well, how long do you have
reserves to cover things? In other
words, when does the funding run out
should the shutdown continue for a long
period of time?
End of this month.
You know, SNAP benefits is probably $75
million a month. I can't not make up
that shortfall. So if the federal
government walks away, that's tough. If
we had assurance the federal
government's going to backstop, if we
had the help it out for a couple months
and we'll get paid back, that's
something else. We have none of that
assurance. I guess I I want to go back
to the idea of leadership right now
because we are beginning the midterm
election cycle. And I wonder as a
Democrat in your second term as
governor,
how much do you feel allegiance to the
Democratic Party versus something else
amorphous that's coming that doesn't
necessarily have a label?
Well, as governor, you feel strong
allegiance to your state. I'm a homer
for Connecticut. I'm team Connecticut.
And um
you know, Republican or Democrat, I try
and get stuff done.
Personally speaking, as I look at a lot
of the civil war down in Washington,
D.C., and I look at LA, and I look at
Chicago, um
you know, I do think it's important that
the Democratic governors stand and stand
and speak with one voice that um
you know, what we need from the federal
government in terms of a reliable
partner.
How much are you concerned about some of
the images that we're seeing with the
National Guard going into places like
Chicago and San Francisco and Portland
and and really raising a question about
whether it's going to be the states
versus the federal government?
Ray Dalio will be speaking again.
Remember a year or two ago he was
talking about civil war and we go, "Oh,
Ray, come on." It's a little bit you're
unnerving if you see those images right
now. I talked to a General Evon, the
head of the Connecticut Guard. Um we're
very careful. I said any inquiries from
the federal government? I don't know. Uh
we'd have sent our guard to Djibouti uh
not to Chicago. I feel pretty good about
that. Going forward, what is your plan
to try to keep businesses here and
attract them to the Northeast given the
exodus that has gone to Florida, to
other places that have lower taxes?
We are speeding up our rail system from,
say, Greenwich to uh
you know, Grand Central. That'll be 10
15 minutes faster. Working really hard
to make sure, you know, you can get the
workforce you need. And again, we
haven't raised taxes in 7 years. We
balanced the budget. I think that type
of stability is pretty helpful. Do you
think that taxes need to come down? Do
you think that that's an instrumental
part of trying to keep attracting
businesses and compete with other
states?
Well,
I'm a governor, so I can't over-promise.
Everybody running against me is always
saying they're going to eliminate the
income tax in the state of Connecticut.
I think what's more important to the
folks I talk to is what's the state
going to look like 1 year and 5 years
from now? Do I want to be here cuz I'm
making a 5-year bet. We haven't raised
taxes at all. I've cut them for
middle-class folks. I think that's a
good balance. Going forward, what is
your number one hope for the state? What
is your number one sort of policy
platform that you're hoping to get
forward over the next 1 to 5 years?
I need housing. You know, for the first
time in a long time, a lot of young
people are moving out here. Like the
lifestyle. We're pretty good as a
suburban lifestyle. Rebuilding our
cities. You know, these are cities were
50% bigger 50 years ago. Now they're
growing again where young people want to
be. As I talk to the businesses and say,
"Is this a place where young people,
young employees want to be?" I'm trying
to say yes. How much are you
participating in the reindustrialization
of uh the United States? I mean, that's
been a big platform that we've seen
overall. Is that something that you're
trying to attract to the state as well?
Yeah, I'd like to think of us as a
Silicon Valley of manufacturing. We do a
lot of complicated stuff like
submarines, jet engines, and choppers.
And they are growing fast. That's the
sort of the heart of our economy in the
northern part of the state. But, you
know, that's changing, too. It's getting
increasingly energy intensive, so I got
to bring down the price of electricity
as best I can and make sure they have
the workforce. It's all sort of an AI
computerized workforce now.
Governor Lamont, thank you so much for
being here. Wonderful to speak with you.
Here with Governor Ned Lamont of
Connecticut as you hear the seagulls
calling overhead. Back to you, John.
>> Alyssa, you enjoy yourself. Have fun.
Alyssa, thank you very much. Thank you.
Sounded like the Democrat from
Connecticut was worried about the
Democrat in New York City. Yeah, Zoran
Momdani. He's worried about potentially
what this means because of obviously the
driver of business and growth New York
City is to all of the tri-state area,
whether that's Long Island, New Jersey,
Westchester, Connecticut, the commuters
that come in and out. Also though, it
could be a huge boost for Connecticut in
terms of people that maybe want to flock
and live somewhere else. That's what
people are saying, potentially they'd
want to leave New York City. The
election weeks away. More from Lisa
throughout the day from the Greenwich
Economic Forum. So look out for more on
that. Special interview also later on
this morning, Jamie Dimon sitting down
with Bloomberg's Tom Mackenzie over in
London. That conversation about 3 hours
away. Coming up on this program in the
next hour, we'll catch up with Brent
Schutte of Northwestern Mutual, William
Stein of Truist Securities, Stephanie
Roth of Wolfe Research, and Ohsung Kwon
of Wells Fargo with a new price target
on the S&P 500 over at Wells for next
year. We'll get into that in the next
hour. From New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
The reality is the AI boom is real. AI
has the potential to be very important.
But no technology gets adopted in a
straight line. We need to see a heck of
a lot more particularly given the amount
of spending that is going to be done
over the next couple of years. I don't
think the switch turns off in '26 or
'27. You are seeing abroad now. Our most
preferred way to face structural growth
is through tax. For the moment, the
trajectory is very much towards
corporates still being in a relatively
better position.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. All-time
highs on the S&P, the Nasdaq, the
Russell. Futures positive on the S&P,
the Nasdaq, and the Russell. Advancing
once again following a 7-day winning run
on the S&P 500, the longest daily
winning streak going all the way back to
May of this year. That's the story in
equities. The story for the week ahead
shaping up as follows. We're going to be
light on data once again with the
government shutdown. So we're looking
ahead to earnings from Delta on
Thursday. Then a week today, earnings
from JP Morgan. To hear from the man
himself, Jamie Dimon, the CEO and
chairman of JP Morgan Chase, stay tuned.
11:40 Eastern time speaking to
Bloomberg's Tom Mackenzie about
Bloomberg technology and a whole lot
more. Well, when you think about it,
what is he going to be asked? Obviously,
when it comes to technology, are we in a
bubble right now? And I love what Ed
Yardeni had to put out this week.
There's certainly a bubble in fears of a
stock market bubble, especially in
technology stocks. So there's this push
and pull, real division we see playing
out in real time on whether or not
people think this is potentially a
bubble. When you look at deals that are
being done like AMD, OpenAI,
OpenAI, Nvidia, a circular market,
it gets people concerned. At the same
time, it is promising to really
transform this economy.
>> There's so much economic activity going
on right now. We saw this through the
month of September. Lots of debt supply,
lots of paper starting to move. We saw
the agreement, a bank purchase taking
place, and consolidation of the regional
bank sector in the last 24 hours, the AI
announcements as well.
The C-suites moving on and moving on
really, really quickly. 6 months ago we
were obsessed knee-deep in tariffs and
what the trade story would mean for
corporate America. If you want a flavor
of that now, you need to listen to the
C-suite, the banks, what they're saying,
what they're seeing because you're not
going to get it from the data.
>> And where they're hiring. They're hiring
right now in investment banking because
everyone is lining up to get deals done
that they felt they couldn't get done
for the past 4 years. The deregulation
push is actually happening in
Washington. So CEOs have really moved on
from the tariff story, and in 2026, they
want to move on to the M&A story.
Yesterday it was Fifth Third and
Comerica, tomorrow who knows. Coming up
on this program, we'll catch up with
Brent of Northwestern Mutual as stocks
trade near record highs. William Stein
of Truist as he calls AMD a real partner
in the AI market and the US Senator Bill
Cassidy as the government shutdown
enters day seven. We begin this hour
with stocks eyeing eight straight days
of gains as the AI spending spree
continues. Brent
of Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance
writes in the following, while the
budget battle led to frozen funds in
Washington an artificial intelligence
fueled deal making spree has fueled no
shortage of investor confidence. Brent
joins us now for more. Brent, welcome to
the program. Are you starting to
question that confidence?
Yeah, I think so. I think there's lots
of comments about '98, '99 and people
use more anecdotes than anything else.
Let's look at some data.
The narrowness of the market is the same
as it has been since back then. So '98,
'99, 28 and 32% of the S&P 500 names
beat the index, same as 23 and 24.
Small and mid caps traded the same
relative valuations they did back then.
The CAPE ratio, which is the price that
you're paying for the earnings overall,
second highest level in 150 years going
back to 19 or 1870. Price to cash flow,
so I hear so much about the cash flow
these companies are earning versus back
then. You're paying levels of cash flow
on the tech sector that you were back in
September of 1999. And so if you look at
all these different things, I think
there are a lot of echoes of 1999 and
that's where I have concerns about what
happens going forward. What do you think
happens going forward, Brent?
I think investors should focus on the
economy broadening back out and the
markets broadening back out. And so I
hear lots of commentaries about why
small and mid cap stocks cannot perform.
I heard the same things way back in
1998, 1999. I think about international
stocks which were similarly dead back
then. And I think about the dollar
potentially pushing lower in the future
which at least historically has been the
biggest determinant of what happens in
US versus international equities. And if
you believe the dollar's headed lower,
you might want to have some
international equities in your
portfolios. And so I think there are a
lot of echoes, a lot of similarities and
I think opportunities exist. just in
places that people aren't looking for
right now. And I think much like then,
AI will become something that does
benefit the entire economy and all the
companies that operate in the economy
which is where that broadening thing I
think really comes to fruition. While
other opportunities might exist, don't
you also want to be exposed to what is
going on given the fact that every
single day these companies are notching
new record highs?
100% but you don't want it to be your
whole portfolio and that's my worries
right now because when I travel around,
people only want to be invested in those
parts of the market. That's where I hear
people come on your your show and
essentially kind of talk about that as
the as if that's the only opportunity
that's out there. Look, it can go
higher.
That is no doubt. I don't know when it's
going to stop and that's the problem.
And that's where I think anybody who
thinks they're going to know exactly the
date that you need to actually get in
those other parts of the market because
you have hit some level of kind of peak
optimism on AI and in those names,
that's where I think they're fooling
themselves. Plus if you think about it,
we have to broaden back out at some
point. I don't think the economy can
continue to be this narrow.
AI will become something that's
obviously very important to the US
economy but is that already discounted
in the prices of those stocks? And do
the winners change in the future which I
think the answer is yes. Jeff Bezos
talked about on Friday that investors
have a hard time in the middle of this
excitement really between distinguishing
between the good ideas and the bad
ideas. What are the characteristics of
each of those playbooks?
Yeah, I mean that's just where I don't
know if people know what the exact
winners are going to be and how this is
going to play out in the coming months.
I even think about the economic data
right now which I never thought I'd get
on a TV show and we wouldn't be talking
about the potential for a contraction
when the average job growth is less than
30,000 by any single metric. You can
look at ADP, Revelio Labs which is
something you all brought to life last
week. And that's where I just think
that's kind of an odd period of time. At
the same time you have inflation
which is pushing higher not lower and
the Fed is expected to cut rates. We
haven't been at their 2% target for some
time. The CAPE ratio is at, you know,
150 year highs besides 1999 and yet
there are no fears that are out there.
And that's where I just want people to
behave just a bit better and make sure
they're ready for whatever comes next
because I do think that there are some
risks that are out there that are not
currently priced into the market in any
way, shape or form.
>> Brent, the situation you describe
though, isn't that precisely the reason
this is such a fertile environment for
taking risks right now that we have had
a step down in payrolls growth? The Fed
is responding to it and will continue to
respond to it. At the same time the
earnings profile of the big weights of
the S&P 500 is still quite robust and
solid. So you get both the earnings and
the rate cuts. Why wouldn't you want to
be in these names?
Look, that's where I think you could say
this at any point in the past in in time
periods like this and I think there's
this unfettered belief that the Fed can
save every economic cycle and that's
where I'm just not for sure that occurs.
And so that's where I just advise people
to be a bit cautious. This does not mean
that you go out and sell all your
equities. It's just that you're at
whatever level of equities that your
financial plan says and that you stay
diversified. I think there are more
outcomes that could occur.
Everything going well could be an
outcome that occurs. I think inflation
could be an outcome that occurs. I think
on the opposite side you could actually
have an economic contraction because at
least historically the labor market is
the canary in the coal mine. And that's
where I'd advise people to stay
diversified, stay invested and continue
to think about the future and that's
where I like to focus on relative
valuations in times of unknown. And
that's where I think small and mid cap
stocks traded those valuations relative
to the large cap counterparts that they
did back in 1999. And if you look at the
past 25 years, mid cap stocks
outperformed the US large cap market by
2% and small caps by 1.8% and that was
from those lows of 1999. Brent, just
build on this just a little bit more.
Diversification in 2025 and what that
actually means. I remember when playing
utilities it was actually defense and
now it all feels like precisely the same
trade. How different is the story now?
On the diversification trade, I mean I
think to me diversification means that
you invest on certainty and
concentration means that you think you
know exactly what's going to happen and
I don't think there's anybody who's
going to come on your show that's going
to know exactly what's going to happen.
I think there are echoes of 1999 and
that's where I would encourage people to
stay invested in those names but don't
make them your entirety of your
portfolio which is what I see individual
investors wanting to do. They don't want
to own anything outside of that and that
has echoes of '99, that has echoes of
'06. And that's where I think these
narratives that Wall Street kind of
comes up with to support whatever thesis
they have often times gets cold water
thrown on it. Brent, appreciate the
update. Your reaction as well. Thank
you, sir. Brent there of Northwestern
Mutual Life Insurance. Cautious on this
equity market. Wants to stay invested
but worried about the consequence of a
market that's become too concentrated.
>> He's cautious because he's looking at
potentially the history doesn't repeat
itself but certainly rhymes and what
potentially this could mean when we had,
you know, the internet bubble, the dot
com bubble and all of the losers we saw
out of that and the people who got
absolutely burned. And so many of those
people
are still in this market today and
they're starting to feel the same sort
of exuberance they felt in the late
'90s. They're feeling it now and that is
why there's some caution.
>> Nasdaq futures this morning up by
another tenth of 1% with an update on
stories worldwide. With your Bloomberg
brief, let's cross over to Lizzie
Burden. Hey, Lizzie.
Hey, John. The Trump administration is
expected to announce a plan as soon as
today to bail out US farmers impacted by
the ongoing trade war. The rollout may
be impacted by the government shutdown
and could hinder congressional action
needed to approve the payout. Sources
say the bailout could total between 10
and 15 billion dollars and could be
followed by additional aid. Elsewhere,
New York Stock Exchange owner
Intercontinental Exchange is in talks to
invest 2 billion dollars in Polymarket.
The deal could value the popular betting
market between 8 and 10 billion dollars
and could come as soon as today.
Polymarket drew attention of course last
year for its betting market on the
presidential election. And we go with
making it Novo Nordisk has laid off
dozens of employees at its largest US
manufacturing site. That's according to
Reuters. The previously unreported cuts
included roles from quality control to
production line technicians. The company
hired its new CEO, Mike Duster, in late
July. And that should be my brief, John.
Lizzie, thank you. More from Lizzie in
about 30 minutes. Up next on the
program, the morning calls plus William
Stein of Truist as he calls AMD a real
partner in the AI market. That
conversation up next. Live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
I don't say bubble. I never say bubble.
I think that there's a lot of
enthusiasm. People feel, I mean there's
certainly a bit of a chase, right? Where
people feel like they need to
um
you know, buy into the into the
technology. You know, there is some of
that.
But, you know, the market seems to be, I
mean this sort of new economy dynamics,
right? At least for AI. Is that
necessarily wrong? You know, I'm not
sure. That was Neil Dutta of RunMac
saying essentially be more focused if
you're the Federal Reserve on what's
happening in the labor market and the
downshift in payrolls. Neil expecting
this Fed to do a whole lot more. Maybe
not this side of the new year but
certainly into 2026, you're going to see
a more aggressive Federal Reserve as the
labor market weakness
boils to the surface just that little
bit more. And really fascinating because
we are in a data desert with the
government shutdown. Carlyle releasing
its own estimates for US economic data.
Jonathan, this is not in good. Including
an estimate of 17,000 jobs created in
September. That's it. 17,000. If you're
the Federal Reserve and you get a print
like that, you're cutting interest
rates.
>> Still waiting for the payrolls report.
Not sure when we'll get that. The
government's still shut down. Unsure if
we'll get jobless claims this coming
Thursday. CPI a week tomorrow. Waiting
for the inflation report as well. So
this Fed could well be flying somewhat
blind as they get round the table
together to meet for that two-day
meeting at the end of this month. That's
the situation with the Federal Reserve.
Here's the situation with financial
markets. Equity futures on the S&P 500
on a 7-day winning run, the longest
daily winning streak going back to May
of this year. Futures just marginally
positive on the S&P, on the Nasdaq 100,
all-time highs at the close yesterday.
Thank you AMD. That stock is up again
this morning and that index is up by
close to a tenth of 1%. That's the price
action. Let's turn to the morning calls.
That one stock in focus, AMD. First up
UPS raising its price target on the
stock to 265 saying the AI trade still
has legs given the infrastructure
buildout. Your second call from Morgan
Stanley raising its price target on AMD
to 246 noting the open AI deal will
boost its chip ecosystem. And finally
Jefferies upgrading AMD to buy saying
its open AI deal is a quote
multi-generational
opportunity. I stick with AMD. The stock
adding over 63 billion in market value
after landing a blockbuster deal with
open AI. William Stein of Truist has a
buy rating of 273 price target on shares
of AMD. He writes the following, while
AMD was previously cited as a price
check to Nvidia, it is now cited as a
true potential partner. We'll join to
snap for more in the studio. Welcome
morning. Good morning. We just like to
start by giving you some space and time
to reflect on the deal that was
announced yesterday. Were you expecting
something along those lines?
Uh so I don't think this was
a surprise in the sense that we've
written about this change in sentiment
in the way the supply chain partners are
are recognizing and the customers are
recognizing Nvidia, pardon me, AMD for
its um you know, increasingly
competitive uh products and solutions
and the ecosystem that they're trying to
build out relative to Nvidia. So not
surprising from that perspective. It was
certainly a surprise in that we didn't
expect the magnitude and the timing and
the details of this deal which are
extremely positive and I think the
stock's reaction is sensible relative to
the size of this uh deal that's
announced.
>> Maybe it was a Freudian slip, but is AMD
now mounting a real challenge to Nvidia
with this type of deal?
I I you know, it's a a challenge to
Nvidia perhaps. That's I think that's a
fair way to say it, but it's not a
challenge for leadership in my opinion.
I still think Nvidia is the company I
call the AI company and I think that
remains the case.
I think the question is
the way
how should we perceive AMD?
You know, previously, let's say prior to
a couple months ago, my industry
contacts had always cited AMD as a sort
of a price check. They're you know, it's
not for real. They may be getting $2
billion this year, maybe $5 billion in
data center, but from my perspective, I
wouldn't
value that as sort of an underwriting of
of ongoing revenue and profitability
because my perception was looking a
couple years it could be a zero. And
that's what shifted uh a couple months
ago. And so uh a a
an attack or a leader versus uh Nvidia?
No, but a real alternate, a a true
potential partner as a supplier, I think
that's the way to think about AMD.
Doesn't worry you that all of these
deals are so circular?
Look, it's not lost on me that there are
there are heightened risks when
the seller of technology is also
financing the buyer.
However, we've seen this for a number of
years.
The first time I heard about this
happening in this industry uh was with
Nvidia
essentially funding the cloud service
providers to help it build out this
thing they called DGX Cloud.
This made me quite nervous. But here we
are several years later
and when we look back at those
transactions
it does not appear that they were
set in motion to in order to inflate
revenue.
To the contrary, these were
sensible deals with real business
rationale that drove technology forward
for Nvidia and for all of its customers.
And we think the deals that are getting
announced now are are similar to that.
The stock is up again this morning by
3.9% sort of a major move in yesterday's
session. Off the back of that move, I
imagine there's a green light for other
companies to say, we need to strike the
same kind of deal with open AI. Let's
get moving. What are the prospects of
another company doing the same thing? An
Intel say getting involved in something
like this. Yeah, I think for Intel this
is a bridge too far.
Um now, that's not to say that Intel
doesn't sell anything to open AI.
I don't know whether they do or not. I
would imagine it's likely they sold some
stuff to open AI, okay? Um but to become
a major supplier of AI infrastructure
Intel just doesn't have the products and
services that uh that I think are
required here. You you've got the Intel.
What's missing there at the moment? Oh,
a lot. But let's start with uh an
accelerator product. That's a processor
that's sort of at the core of AI
compute. Uh these are often called GPUs.
Sometimes they're called XPUs or ASICs.
They're parallel compute structure
processors.
And the two main merchant vendors of
these um
are Nvidia and AMD. There is another
route that uh these companies can pursue
which is uh called an ASIC or an XPU.
And the major vendor there is is
Broadcom.
Uh there's another one outside of my
coverage called Marvell, but those are
the those are the ASIC vendors.
And it's my best understanding that open
AI is already um
it has a deal with Broadcom for ASICs.
And whether that's a fact or not, I
don't know, but this is the widely
speculated fourth customer of Broadcom.
>> It sounds like from what you were saying
the government investment in Intel is
not going to solve the ultimate problem
that company has. Is that fair?
Well, um
I think that's fair. I I don't I don't
think it's a solution. I think the
question is how do other companies in
the ecosystem, potential partners like
Nvidia
and potential customers react to this
relationship that in that Intel now has
with the federal government. And I and
we saw, you know, a view of this
recently with the Nvidia deal with
Intel, right? This deal, you know, makes
Intel a supplier to Nvidia for the sale
of AI infrastructure to Nvidia's
customers. So they're essentially using
some technology from Intel.
Is that enough to save them?
I don't think so. I I I think that
that's not to say that Intel won't
succeed, but it's going to take more.
What was remarkably absent from that
announcement was anything related to
manufacturing. How difficult is that
line to walk right now for these
executives? I have been on countless
trips with the president or in
Washington and Jensen Huang is there
almost dictating at times chip policy.
What he wanted to see, the Trump
administration is actually doing.
Are they going to come under pressure to
help basically support Intel and
potentially other companies that the US
government now wants to see be winners?
I I'd have two comments to that. First
um I think there is some pressure and
there that may be why um
Nvidia engaged in this transaction with
Intel. Maybe, I don't really know. But
the second point is um
to just take a little bit of exception
with what you said. I Look, I don't know
anything about Jensen's interaction with
President Trump. Um
I don't believe Jensen is dictating
policy. For if he were, they would be
selling lots of product to China right
now.
They're still a policy to convince this.
>> maybe I'm being a little bit snarky, but
at the same time Jensen Huang wanted to
get rid of the diffusion rule. Diffusion
rule over with the Trump administration.
They wanted to get the H20 chips back
into China. Now whether China want to
buy them or not, they are able to get
that back into China. So a lot of things
that he has been socializing
are actually coming to fruition under
Trump. I think they're good policy. I
think that's what's going on here. I
don't Look, again, I don't know the
degree to which uh Jensen influences
Donald Trump. I really don't know. But I
think these are good policies.
Well, before you go, wanted to finish
and get your thoughts on what's been
happening in the equity market more
broadly. You've heard a lot of guests
come on including our last guest about
20 minutes ago saying that there were
echoes of the late 1990s. He was worried
for investors and the concentrated risk,
the bets building just around one or two
companies. Open AI a good example of
that. Is that a concern of yours? And
what could you point to that would be
slightly worrisome?
It is a concern. I think to brush that
off is silly. I think whenever demand is
very strong and has been for a number of
years as it has been in this AI trade
since you know, roughly 2020 or
thereabouts.
I think one has to always have an eye
towards the next downturn.
This this uh AI data center cohort
experienced that in 2019.
It will happen again.
The question is when and how bad will it
be. I don't see anything on the horizon
that suggests it's in the very visible
future. For example, you know, this
year, next year, maybe 27. Doesn't There
don't seem to be any signs of the the
the worrying signs, if we see them, are
are two things. One is a step down in
CapEx
from hyperscalers or like companies,
so-called neo clouds, companies that are
spending a lot on AI. if there's a
slowdown or negative growth one year,
that's obviously a big trip. The other
is the ability for AI-linked startups to
continue to get funding.
If that um if that has a sort of a stall
or hiccup, uh it's going to be a
not-so-good day for these group of
stocks. I can't so much talk about the
wider market, so you can make some
interpretations. Right now, the money's
still there, that's for sure. Yes.
William I'm going to say thanks for
dropping by. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
William Standen of Truist Securities on
that latest deal between AMD and OpenAI
announced yesterday and that major rally
we saw in AMD. Lots of concern, but
ultimately one-way traffic for this
equity market over the last 7 days.
Kevin Gordon though writes in, I love
this. He says it's way bigger than
1998-1999.
As of the end of September, the 10
largest stocks in the S&P 500 made up
41.3%
of the index market cap.
That has to concern some people. Nasdaq
futures up this morning by 10th of 1%
coming up on this program. The US
Senator Bill Cassidy as the government
shutdown enters day seven. Live from New
York City this morning. Good morning,
you're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
The opening bell about 60 minutes away.
Your score shaping up as follows. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 just about
positive. Likewise on the Nasdaq up a
10th of 1% after closing at another
record high in yesterday's session.
Light on data once again this morning.
Light on data all week potentially. Mike
McKee can give you a look ahead. Good
morning, Mike.
Good morning, Joe. Well, it is trade
data that is missing today, the latest
data from August, the updated data. The
good thing is we do get then advanced
word on the trade deficit and we did get
that just before the government shutdown
started and it showed that the trade
deficit has widened by in goods alone
has widened by 11% this year. We are not
exporting as much as we have been
importing even though during the last
month we saw imports drop significantly
because people had front-run the
government. The one interesting thing is
that trade imports from China are down
19% on the year. The biggest increase
comes from Switzerland, 197%
higher.
That's because all the people moving
gold back and forth when they thought it
might be tariffed. Uh we go on from here
to probably not get jobless claims on
Thursday and we will get the University
of Michigan on Friday, but it's
Wednesday's Fed minutes that are going
to be the most important thing that we
do get because people are going to want
to know A, how Stephen Myron was
received and B, what people thought at
the time on the Fed about the
possibility of a rate cut in October and
December. Mike McKee This is Michael,
thank you. Breaking down the data you
won't be getting later this week. This
is what Stephanie Roth of Wolfe Research
has to say. There should be very little
impact to headline payrolls, but
furloughed employees should be counted
as unemployed. Stephanie joins us now
for more. Stephanie, good morning. Good
morning.
>> What's your take on the government
shutdown? I just want your take on the
lack of data. When does it start to
become a problem?
Well, if we if we head into the to the
Fed at the end of October, then it's a
problem.
Our expectation is you'll probably start
to see some data and of course they're
going to roll out the employment data
rather quickly once the employment the
the the
the government opens up because the the
payrolls report was largely done.
But as we move into the next couple of
weeks, it starts to become a real issue.
We really need to see the payrolls data.
We really need to see the inflation
data. An issue because the Fed won't be
able to make a decision or just because
they're flying blind without enough of
the data when they say they're
data-dependent? They're flying blind and
our expectation is the data over the
summer from a payrolls perspective was
not a great reflection of what's going
on in the economy. Our expectation is
that the the trend in payrolls is not
something like the 29,000 3-month
average. It's closer to 60,000, in which
case that's a much different picture
because 60,000 is roughly the break-even
pace. When the data does come out, how
difficult is it going to be potentially
trust it because all the individuals
that are set to be collecting data every
single day are at home right now,
furloughed? Yes, so the October data is
going to be really bad. That I think
should largely be dismissed. The
positive is the September data data is
clean. So the data that we'll get
initially will be a clean read of the
economy. Then you're going to have a
another window where the data will not
really be a very accurate reflection of
what's going on and then we can move
into the November data. So the September
data especially from payrolls
perspective will be helpful to gauge
whether certainly we see August
revisions higher because that's our
expectation. A decent print for
September is our anticipation. And then
when we get the October data, you have
not only the the impact from the
government shutdown, which like you
mentioned, those people will show up as
unemployed if they answer the question
correctly, and
and there will be deferred resignations.
If you got if you got your doubts
they're answering the question
correctly. Well, if you look
historically, they they didn't. It's a
it's unclear, it's a survey and the BLS
isn't supposed to change their answer.
So if they answer incorrectly, they have
to leave it that way. So it will be very
unclear the impact on the unemployment
rate. It could be a couple of 10ths, it
could be up to 4/10. But then we're
going to also have the deferred
resignation, 150,000 roughly negative
payrolls for federal workers. Any reason
for the Fed to deviate from its dot plot
with or without the data based on the
projections last time around?
I don't think so. I think the the the
dot plot is probably kind of accurate in
terms of where we are today. Things
haven't really changed that much. We
don't have a clean read of the economy,
but uh things haven't don't appear to
have deviated that much since uh the the
last set of data.
>> Did we have a clean read on the economy
when we did have the data?
Yes, I think there were just a lot there
have been a lot of revisions and that's
what's been driving a lot of the
uncertainty. It's less about the any
sort of fraudulent activity happening
with the data or it it it being
incorrect in any other way, but there
are a lot of revisions partially because
the response rates have been low. But
once you get the the second release of
of payrolls, then you have response
rates back up to normal levels. Carlyle
has put out their proprietary data
because of what's going on, the fact
that we are in this data desert. And
they are estimating 17,000 jobs only
created in September.
Could it really be just 17,000 jobs?
It it could. Our expectation is it's
probably a bit better than that. If you
look at consumer spending data,
>> What's a bit better?
60,000 60 to 70,000 is kind of the ideal
level right now. That's the break-even
pace. That's that would be a a nice
steady-state trend in payrolls. But so
the 17,000 margin of error could easily
be 60,000 as the actual trend pace. And
if you look at consumer spending, we got
big upward revisions to the consumer
spending in the last PCE report and it
tells you that consumers are still
feeling largely okay or at least they
they're they're spending with their
wallets. I'm glad you mentioned the
consumer cuz we're obviously going into
the holiday shopping season as well, if
you can imagine even though it's 80°
outside. When you say consumers are
still spending, at some point are
tariffs going to be passed on to them?
At some point, but it's been a slow move
into passing it on to the consumer. So
our expectation is when we track it,
about 40% of the tariffs that we
ultimately expect to to get passed on
have been passed on. It probably will
never reach 100%, so call it we're half
of the way there. So we'll probably
continue to see it, but it will seem to
be hap- rolling out slowly, which is
easier for the consumer to absorb.
Stephanie, it's good to see you. Thanks
for breaking it down. Stephanie Roth of
Wolfe Research on an economy without
much data right now and what it means
for the Federal Reserve at the end of
the month. Let's talk about the
government shutdown. I'm pleased to say
that joining us now is the Senator from
Louisiana, the Republican Chair of the
Senate Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions Committee, Senator Bill Cassidy
joins us now for more. Senator, welcome
to the program, sir. Welcome back, I
should say. There is a take on Wall
Street that we've seen this movie
before, that we get to the inevitable
pressure points and the government
reopens. You've done this for a long
time. You've had this seat for 10 years.
Senator, does it feel different this
time?
It feels a little bit different because
there's a complete breakdown of trust.
Um Chuck Schumer, obviously he could end
it tomorrow if he wants to end it, but
he doesn't trust the president. Uh that
said, Chuck Schumer could end this
tomorrow. I'm hoping that he does and
I'm hoping it doesn't take a lot of pain
from the American people in order to get
them to do so. Is there a breakthrough
in the fact that and good morning,
Senator, that it does seem like both
sides at least at this point want to
talk about talking as political put it,
that the president is coming out and
saying maybe there could be a compromise
when it comes to healthcare.
Yeah. Uh
I'm absolutely.
You know, it's better to jaw-jaw than to
war-war as Winston Churchill once said.
So let's go ahead and start talking.
That said, Republicans have have
suggested a 7-week extension of the
current budget to allow to allow
dialogue to continue. And that's
commonly done as Chuck Schumer points
out, happened 13 times under Joe Biden.
And so that 7 weeks kept the government
open, allowed us to continue to
negotiate. So I think there's something
else that Schumer's thinking about, not
quite sure what it is, but I'd rather be
talking than kind of sitting in our own
corners. What is going to happen though
at the end of the year when we get this
premium hike?
Um well, first we don't know a premium
hike is going to occur. Let's just say
that. Uh but secondly,
uh we've got to address the fact that
the Affordable Care Act has become the
Unaffordable Care Act, in which it takes
huge subsidies in order to continue to
make those policies affordable to
Americans. That's wrong. We got to roll
that back to a point where it's still
affordable to Americans, but it doesn't
require these huge subsidies. This is
not sustainable. But by the way, it's
not just me saying this, the Washington
Post had an editorial about how the
Affordable Care Act is no longer
affordable. So I think now might be the
time. What can we do to help the
American American public lower
healthcare costs in a way which is not
just for the exchanges, but for those in
the kind of private markets as well.
Could you get a compromise like that
before the end of the year?
I sure hope so, but first you got to
reopen the government. Um, we're
actually asking for, you know, okay, how
can we do this? How can we do that? The
government's shut down, so we can't get
some of the information. The 7-week
extension of the current budget allows
that to happen. And so I'd ask Schumer
to reopen the government. In the
meantime, I'm certainly committed to how
we can lower healthcare costs for all
Americans. It's what I've been doing my
whole life. And so let's get on it.
Senator, when it comes to moderate
Democrats, do you see any willingness of
some of them to join the three that we
have seen sign up and vote for a clear
stopgap funding measure?
I've not spoken to any of them
personally. Uh, you'd like to think so.
One more time, we've just asked for a
7-week extension of the current budget,
which was done 13 times under Joe Biden.
And so so so I would hope they would
because this is inflicting pain on the
American people, but we could be talking
with each other without a shutdown. I
think this is a political response by
Schumer to pressure from his left wing,
but it should be pressure from the
American people keeping the government
open while we continue to work to lower
healthcare costs.
>> Uh, Senator, the White House is still
operational and they're making moves. I
wanted to squeeze this in because I know
you're a busy man this morning. Trilogy
Metals in early trading this morning is
higher by more than 200%. The
announcement that the US will be taking
a 10% stake in the Canadian minerals
explorer leading to a big rally on the
stock. Senator, can you give me your
opinion your perspective on what you
think of the party moving towards
something that smells a little bit like
central planning?
Yeah, I'm a little bit personally
concerned about state-owned enterprises
because it's a slippery slope. At first
you're a passive partner. It's one thing
to have a position in the stock market
or it's another thing to have a time to
exit. After TARP, there were some
positions that the federal government
had that was a time to exit. That's
okay. But but having a long-term
interest, I I think there'll be a future
Democratic president who will be tempted
to go a little bit further. We should
definitely get a return on our
investment if we end up bailing somebody
out. Absolutely. Uh, but on the other
hand, I'm a little bit nervous about
taking positions that go beyond a time
to exit. Well, what do you make of the
fact that the Republican Party, not the
Democratic Party, is the party doing
this and supporting state capitalism?
Yeah, so I think the president uh I I
can't speak for the president. And the
Republican Party is a diverse
organization. I'll say that as well. Uh,
I'm just speaking for Bill Cassidy and I
am a conservative and I am a little bit
nervous when when when government ends
up owning the means of production. Uh,
when that happens, sometimes the
government ends up dictating to the
means of production what to do. For
example, keep keep employment up for
political reasons. I'm nervous about
that. Uh, maybe the president's got a
great plan. It's one thing to be a
passive partner, to own stock, to have a
time to exit, etc. Another to be active.
Now, I will say the president's
specifically saying we'll not take a
position on the board. That's my
understanding. That's a good thing.
That's a really good thing. But still, I
I I'll put all those caveats out there.
As a Senator, does it concern you that
the executive branch is going one way
and not consulting you and your
colleagues?
Uh, ultimately, we have to recognize
that executive orders have been put
there and the presidents can do kind of
what they want with an executive order.
Uh, but obviously, the problem with that
is that when a new president comes in,
she or he, uh so far just he, can
immediately reverse all those. So you
want legislation that will actually put
in place for certainty for business and
for labor that plan for the economy that
goes forward. So so everybody
understands executive orders are
powerful, but they're temporary. I would
I would suggest that if we're going to
have long-term certainty, we need
Congress to weigh in. Senator, before
you go, can Tigers football get back on
track?
Uh, can who? Can Tigers football get
back on track?
>> oh my gosh.
I certainly hope so. Um, I certainly
hope so. We have a good game that's
coming up with South Carolina.
Um, so I'm always hopeful for the
Tigers. Go Tigers. Almost on top of the
SEC. Senator, appreciate your time.
Thank you, sir. Senator Bill Cassidy,
thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Had
to squeeze in some Tigers football.
>> You had a segment on a sour note with
the poor Senator. At least he was very
open about the situation when it comes
to acquisitions. Very much so. And we
talked about this in the previous hour
with Libby Cantrill.
I am sympathetic with the objective,
uncomfortable with central planning, and
ultimately you have to be wary of what
you normalize when you're in power
because someone else might be in power
and you might be out of it and they can
take this to a different place. What
Senator Cassidy said is what a lot of
Republicans will tell me behind the
scenes, but don't want to be so overt
about it. And he was happy to be honest
right there on live television about
this does make him uncomfortable. And
for those reasons you just outlined, how
many times though have we seen
administrations, this is taking it more
to the extreme, but also the Biden
administration, using national security
as this veil to basically enact some
sort of industrial policy. That stock is
up by 250%
in the premarket. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Lizzie Burden.
Hi, Lizzie.
Hi, John. Dell shares soaring in the
premarket after it roughly doubled its
sales growth and profit estimates over
the next 2 years citing demand for
artificial intelligence products. The
company's updated financial framework
calls for a sales to rise at a rate of 7
to 9% annually for the next 4 years,
while earnings per share will increase
15% or more. Elsewhere, the
International Energy Agency slashed its
forecast of US renewable energy growth
by 2030 in half. The reduction compared
to last year's analysis is due to
several policy changes imposed under
President Donald Trump, the IEA said.
Global renewable power is expected to
increase by 4,600 gigawatts by the end
of the decade, according to the report.
And Tesla plans to unveil a cheaper
version of the Model Y today to counter
the loss of US incentives for electric
vehicles. The cheaper vehicle will lack
certain features and use less premium
materials. Executives said that
production of a more affordable model
started in June, but they decided to put
off ramping up output until after the US
phased out tax credits. And that should
be my brief, John. Hi, Lizzie. Thanks
for this morning. Appreciate it. Up
next, we'll catch up with Osun Kwon of
Wells Fargo with a new 2026 year-end
target on the S&P 500. Plus Yahaira,
how's your morning movers? Dell soaring
as AI demand lifts profit estimates.
That stock is up by 5%.
[Music]
It's pretty easy for us to find great
leases from investment grade tenants
like the hyperscalers. You look
historically
in areas like this over the last 20 or
30 years, typically when this much
capacity comes online, some of it at the
end of the day is going to have to be
marginal, right? These trends tend to
lead to overbuilds in certain places. So
I think us being selective and being
measured in what we build. That was the
Ares Management co-president Kip DeVay
sitting down with Lisa a little bit
earlier on this morning. That's the
major theme right now driving this
equity market. Futures right now on the
S&P 500 shaping up as follows. Futures
positive by 10th of 1% on the S&P up by
0.2. On the Nasdaq 100, all-time highs
at the close in yesterday's session and
we add some weight to the rally so far
this morning. In the premarket, let's
get you some single names, some morning
movers. Let's cross over to Yahaira for
more. Hi, Yahaira. Hi, John. We start
with IBM rising nearly 3% in the
premarket on news that it's integrating
Anthropic's Claude AI models into its
coding coding platform. It's the latest
strategic partnership between one of
these established tech players and AI
newcomers like Anthropic, which has been
riding high. It just had a funding round
last week, which nearly tripled its
valuation to $183 billion. And another
high flyer is Dell Technologies up
nearly 6% in the premarket after the
company roughly doubled its growth
estimate for the next 2 years citing
booming demand for its AI products. And
it has to do with what chief operating
officer Jeff Clark said, which is we
were all wrong about how big we thought
the AI market was 2 years ago and it's
nothing but bigger, he said. And we end
on Trilogy Metals up now 250% on news
that the US is taking a 10% stake in the
company, part of a $35 million push to
unlock critical energy and mining
projects in Alaska. Of course, it's the
latest move by the Trump White House to
take direct stakes in these critical
minerals firms to counter China. John.
Yahaira, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Major rally on that name in the
premarket. Let's stay on top of the
market. Tech stocks fueling equities to
a seventh consecutive day of gains. Osun
Kwon of Wells Fargo expecting the S&P to
hit 7,200 by end of next year writing
the following, the AI investment cycle
could be as big as the internet cycle if
not bigger requiring much more compute
power than past innovation cycles. Osun
joins us now for more. Good morning,
sir. And congratulations as well
>> Thank you. on the new seat. Fantastic to
get some time with you. Was going
through the note. Let's talk about where
the money's coming from and what's
fueling this infrastructure rollout
because that's important and you've
touched on that. Where's it coming from?
Yeah, so far it's been cash from
operations and I think that was really
the early innings of the AI CapEx cycle.
It was really the hyperscalers laying
out their CapEx plans and funding it
with their operations. I think now we're
moving into the fourth inning, so
essentially the first inning of the
middle innings. Um, then more players
are coming in. They're tapping into
capital markets to fund growth and I
think we could potentially see some
acceleration in CapEx. Is this somewhat
start to add the leverage to the cycle?
Yeah, yeah, exactly. Um, you know, I
think that cycle could potentially lead
into hyperscalers potentially increasing
their CapEx as percentage of operating
cash flow. There are some concerns out
there that CapEx as percentage of
operating cash flow for hyperscalers are
rising too fast, too much. If you look
at consensus numbers, it's going to
reach about 70% by the end of next year.
We actually look looked at what happened
during the shale days with energy
companies. I think that was the most
recent example of the investment cycle.
And during the shale days, energy
companies spent about 90% of their cash
flow on CapEx for two plus years and yet
their stocks continued to rally. So, I
think as long as the equity market
continues to reward CapEx outlook and
the growth outlook, I think this is
going to continue. But not everyone made
it
when it comes to the shale, right? Not
everyone made it. Dot-com, shale. So,
how do you in this moment decipher who's
going to be a winner and who's going to
be a loser? Yeah, I think for now at
least, uh, the biggest winners are going
to be continue to be the CapEx takers.
So, semis and hardware. And I think we
are still in the earlier part of the
investment cycle. So, if you look at the
size of tech equipment spend as
percentage of total GDP,
right now we're about 2 2.0% of total US
GDP. It peaked at 2.6% during the PC
boom in the '80s, 2.9% during 2000 and
during the internet internet bubble. Uh,
and just to get to that 2.9%, that means
tech equipment spend has to go up by 47%
on top of GDP growth, which is very
significant. Does it concern you though,
we ask all these guests about this when
it comes to AMD and Open AI, Nvidia,
Open AI, how circular this whole
investment cycle is? Yeah, there's a
little bit of froth uh, around that
obviously. Um, what's happening right
now is really and and this is a part of
the reasons why we like small cap
technology stocks that are really
starting to see the benefits of this,
you know, ever increasing cycle of the
AI CapEx investments.
Um, the idea is that the major players
are at full capacity. They can't take
capacity anymore and because of power,
GPUs, things like that. And they got to
make acquisitions, they got to make um,
you know, investments in other companies
to get that power and capacity. And
there are a lot of small small cap tech
companies that are benefiting from.
>> And this is a somewhat original point of
yours that this can broaden their market
cap. And that you also believe that the
move in the Russell 2000 is not just
about a rate story. It's not just about
the cycle. It's about something with
regards to AI. Could you give us some
detail on that? Yeah, so over the past
two months, the Russell 2000
outperformed the Nasdaq. And a lot of
people were saying that this is the
cyclical rotation, this is the easing
cycle trade, which I think a part of it
is true. Well, if you look at what drove
the Russell to higher over the past two
months, it was really tech. It was
communication services and tech that by
far outperformed the Russell 2000 So, I
think it was actually an AI story that
because the big guys are at full
capacity, there are a lot of smaller
companies that are starting to really
benefit from that because demand
outpaces supply right now. There's a
guest who comes on this program always
challenges people to name a stock on the
Russell 2000. A lot of people failed
that task. Given it's an index that very
few people can actually name the stocks
on that index, how should you play that
story if you are going down cap? Yeah,
so we came up with 26 stocks. Uh, we
created a basket of AI a small cap AI
stocks that could potentially benefit
from uh, what's been happening over the
past month or so. Lots to think about.
7200, given everything you've just said,
why are you so bearish? 7200 on the S&P.
I mean, if you have to push me, um, I
think I think there is more of upside to
our target 7200. Um, but you know, I
mean, that's still about 8% upside from
here. For year and next year? Over the
next 12 months. Yeah, I mean, we we
rallied 25% for year to date.
>> up though. When you talk, what I hear is
a melt up. That's what I'm hearing. So,
outside of AI, there's not that many
stocks that or sectors that I'm getting
interested or excited about. Uh, maybe
other than financials. So, I think it's
going to be a continuation of this
narrow market. Um, AI is going to carry
the market. Um, but our model suggests
about 7200 by year and next year. This
was thoughtful. Appreciate your time.
That's a great note. I'm reading it
right now. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
Hassan Kwane there of Wells Fargo. 7200
on the S&P 500 year end next year. But
going through the details on the AI
theme, pretty bullish from where we are.
The leverage is the next stage of
things. Yeah, the fourth inning going to
the fifth inning, very Dan Ives like.
But Dan Ives will focus on the godfather
of AI. Where basically, what we have
here is focusing on all those companies
downstream that are part of the AI story
but are not the mega tech spenders. S&P
futures this morning up by 1/10 of 1%.
The open in about 34 minutes away.
Coming up tomorrow, Julian Emanuel of
Evercore, Torsten Slok of Apollo, Tom
Becker of BlackRock and the former
Federal Reserve Vice Chair Richard
Clarida from New York City this morning.
Good morning to all. Have a wonderful
day. Thank you very much for choosing
Bloomberg TV. You've been watching
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]